TOP SECRETNCOMINTIIREL TO USA, FVEYII20320108

(U) APPENDIX A: Assessing Overall Performance

(UHZ’FOUO) Customers request SIGINT by specifying the “essential elements of information“
(EEls) that they want to uncover. The National Intelligence Priorities Framework (NIPF) maps
each EEl into one of three bands (A, B. or C} of successively decreasing concem according to
general topic. and assigns a l-S priority based on the combination of the topic and speciﬁc
geopolitical or non-state entity involved. Responsive SIGINT is delivered in several forms. but
serialized reporting dominates. and so one indicator of end-to-end mission perfonnance is the
percentage of requested F.F.ls for which at least some responsive reporting is provided (i.e., lire
Eli} citation rate).

(UTFOUO) At a macro-level. the overall citation rate for “Band A" F.F.ls should be greater than
that for “Band B.“ which in turn should exceed that for “Band C". Beyond that. performance
against each “Band A" topic is also weighed in accordance with the following ﬁrst-order rules.
Perfomiance is poor if a “Band A" topic’s rate doesn't even exceed the overall “Band B" rate.
Perfomtance is weak if a topic‘s rate is above the overall “Band B" rate. but less than the overall
“Band A" rate. Perfomiance isfar‘r or good if a topic's rate is at or above the overall “Band A"
rate. with the latter also requiring that the rate for the topics "priority I" EEls be higher than that
for the topic's EEls generally.

(L' ) Citation rates reﬂect only the existence of responsive SIGINT. and not its impact. Moreover,
they don’t directly account for requests that are addressed entirer by other than serialized
reponing, and they can be skewed by careless reeordkeeping or differences in granularity
between EEls. Therefore. quarterly citation rate assessments are complemented with two
broader, more subjective, and more manpower intensive views of customer outcomes and
satisfaction.

(ljfw’FOUO) The ﬁrst is a quarterly, manual assessment of performance against each Nll’F “Band
A" topic that includes niche interactions that don't involve EEls as well as deliverables beyond
serialized reporting, Perfonnauce is graded on the extent to which records show that responsive
information was pushed to or pulled by a customer, and sampling suggests that the records that
lie deliverables to requests are accurate. and sampling suggests that the information delivered
was germane vice just tangential. Performance is poor if responsiveness is well below average
(relative to that for “Band A“ tasks as a whole). weak if responsiveness is somewhat bel0w
averagc.frtrr if responsiveness is average or better. and good if responsiveness overall is average
or better and is better still against high priorities.

[Uil-TOUO) The second is a quarterly survey of roughly 20 intelligence consumers. speciﬁed by
position based on their ability to speak knowledgably and authoritatively about the SIGINT
contributions to key civil or military customers. Those solicited represent the uniﬁed combatant
commands and the Joint Staff; the Depanments of State. Treasury, Commerce. Energy. and
Homeland Security; the Central Intelligence and Defense Intelligence Agencies. the Federal
Bureau of investigation; the Drug Enforcement Administration: the National Countenerrorism
Center; the US. Trade Representative: and the White House Situation Room.

TOP SECRETIICOMINTIIREL TO USA. FVEYII20320108 IO

