TOP SECRETIICOMINTIIREL TO USA. FVEYII20320108

fact been signiﬁcant growth In the percentage of customer questions. and especially high priority
ones. that are being at least partially answered by serialized SIGINT reponing'

.mn ......... “-4.... ..-.e n -...... .u ...... .- n-Inm... (“mm-
50% 'lktud ft“ Roqnesls
45%

rim-s1»
40%
35% ’Ii-utld li'" Requests
30'» ’lktrtd C" Requests
25%
20%
15%

liﬂFOllO I
10% . .

 

03?"! (MP? 01FY 02W 03W QJFY QIFY QZFY (NW 04” QIFV 02FY QSFY

20042004m200526052w5200620062w6200620072m7200?. .
Insular regimes often

remains at a premium. as is infonnation about asymmetric threats such as weapons of mass
destruction, hostile cyber activities, and some terrorist organizations. Moreover, past gains are
always under pressure From the relentless evolution of targets and technology.

( IS!I¢S[.'.~REL) For instance. as Internet routing and service nodes become more dispersed, some
lucrative SIGINT chokepoints vanish and it takes more access points or over-thc-net operations
to maintain the same coverage. As strong cryptography is applied to identity management.
software attestation. protecting data at rest, and securing network mctadata. we must comparably
expand cqrptographic enabling. sensitive commercial partnerships. and eryptanalytic processing
capabilities. As users become more mobile and more anonymous, we must introduce new
association and pattem detection technology. lest targets ofintercsl be lost or overlooked.

(Sf/’SUIREL) At the same time. global Inodemization makes intelligence on economic. political,
and other civil issues more valuable. and relevant targets tend to favor networks. lntemet-centric
activities such as e-commerce, e-voting. and on-net industrial and utility control beg to be mined.
even as we expand existing operations against both public and private nets. Morntling interest in
cyber security and the on-line aspects of crime and extremism also spur demand for network
surveillance, as well as more interaction with atypical customers such as state and local
govennnents. and tighter partnerships with consumers whose own target knowledge can help
steer and interpret collection or whose operations can be “cued" by SlGlNT.

(Sr'r’REL) Some eﬁons to recruit. train. and direct Islamic and other extremists are already
entrusted to networks, and so will be many plans attd acts of the PRC as it rises to be a near-peer
competitor. Ruling institutions of even rogue states make some use of lntentet technology. as do
the scientists and proliferators with which they work. In fact. fewer and fewer targets of any
stripe or location are far removed front a colleague. conﬁdant. or confederate that’s in the know
and on the net.

3 (l‘] “Questions" are defined here as desired essential elements of Informanon spccil'tcd in standing
('0.\[l.\'l' In l-‘lSIN’l' requirements. They‘re considered "addressed" uhen cited in serialized reporting issued during’
[he qualter.

TOP SECRETIICOMINTIIREL TO USA. FVEYIIZO320108

'4)

