TOP SECRETIICOMINTIIREL T0 USA, FVEYII20320108

 

(U) KEY AIMS & ACTIONS

(L') We seek to maximize the SIGINT rnission‘s value to the nation in the context of the
intelligence priorities and technological realities of the network age. Fortunately. no matter what
streams of operational and engineering initiatives e from the incremental to the transfonnational
~ are running their course at a particular time. a few core stntctures cart channel them for best
effect. The following goals are intended to do just that. As implementation of the plan proceeds.
the responsibilities described below will be further decomposed into subtasks for various mission
elements and levels. Ultimately. much of the daily work of the SIGINT enterprise will beneﬁt.
including the immediate mission imperatives presented in Appendix B.

(l).-’.-’FOUO) Goa] l: Annually improve SlGlNT on NIPF "priority I“ tasks and "Band A” topics
in general. as measured by more even performance across topics and rising performance overall.“

 

A. (U) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in October 2007. the mission’s Deputy
Director for Customer Relationships (DDCR) will assess SlGlNT mission performance
against NIPF "Band A" tasks using methods outlined in Appendix A. The DIX ‘R will
provide the ml.\‘.\'imi".\‘ senior leaders with quarterly “Band A " pei'fiiriiimice reports and
(formerly identification ofmi- or wider-satisfied “Band/l " (mks.

(U:'.-‘FOU()) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in FY08. the DDCR will lead the

missions Deputy Directors for Analysis and Production (DDAP) and Data Acquisition

(DDDA). and Associate Deputy Director for SlGlN'l‘ Development (ADD SIGDEV) through

joint reviews of un- or under-satisfied “Band A" tasks to ﬁnd and address problems. The

DIX 'R will prat‘ide [he SKit'N'l' Director mil: quarterly improvement plans and progress

reparis. including concurrence. analysis, and coinmiiiiieim'from the DIJ/li". DDDA, and

AD!) SK il).':' V.

C. (lii‘i'FOUOJ Responsibility and Accountability: By April 2008. the DDDA will begin
tracking thc current and expected purpose and (using doctunentcd business rules)
productivity of I". 2"", and 3'4 party SIGINT accesses.‘l Hie DDDA will provide the SKiliV'l'
Director With qtirirterlv c'oiiifmriswis (girlie “Bairdx‘l " tasks given to. and [lie disposition rind
use of iln.’ resultant collection/min. each curt-ms. liigliligliii‘itg mr- or uirJer-xciiisfierl (asks.

D. (UiC’FOUO) Responsibility and Accomttability: Beginning in FY09. the DDDA will

systematically rccngiltccr, retirc. or replace (dircctly or though a partncr) chronically

‘ (Ur'IFDL'O) While performance against "Band A" topics is our benchmark. or: “ill continue to uork all

high priority tasks. and lesser “Band B" and “Band C" issues when it's affordable and plays to our strengths.

‘ (Ur'lFOlJO) “Access“ as used here refers to data sources that an: at least partially funded via the collection

and operations investment portfolio The purpose or productivity of an access may relate to tipping. steering. or
othemise enabling other collectors. as opposed to collecting targeted ml'onnzuion directly. Uniqueness and
untapped potential are also factors to consider as is the expected contribution of an access in the event of a
reasonably likely and signiﬁcant Future crisis or conccm,

TOP SECRETIICOMINTIIREL TO USA. FVEYII20320108 5

