TOP SECRETIICOMINTIIREL TO USA. FVEYII20320108

underpet'fonning accesses. l'lie DDDA will annually provide the Sltr'lN'l‘ Director with a
inulttt'ear "access enhancement " plan as part oftlie program build qt'cle.

. (U) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in FY08. the Agency‘s Chief Technology

Ofﬁcer (CTO) a with the ﬁtll support of relevant collection, analysis. and customer
engagement elements 7 will start to systematically instrument SlGlNT tasking. ingestion.
processing, analysis, and delivery wstems to automatically tag data so that its source and
subsequent processing and handling can be associated with some categorization of its
ultimate use or intelligence value. llie ( "1'0 trill provide the Agency's Senior Leadership
it'itli semi-annual reportx on the percentage ol'data access-ed that can he so associated.

[liliFOUOlt Goal 2: Field an analytic workforce that promptly and methodically discovers and
exploits priority secrets entrusted to networks worldwide and helps customers turn this insight
into signiﬁcant national outcomes.

A.

5

(Uli‘FOUO) Responsibility and Accoantability: Beginning with FY08, the CTO will enable
improved information discovery by orchestrating annual increases in the proportion of newly
acquired and archived data and metadata that cart be readily searched and retrieved by
analysts across the enterprise using standard workstations. l'lie ( "1?) will develop baseline
measures of accessible data. query titties. and query difﬁculty. and provide. the .S'ltili‘i’l'
l)irector 'li'lllt annual impmvenient ntports. beginning at the end ofl-‘Yili’s’.

. (lili’l-‘OUO) Responsibility and Accountability: ln FY08 and out. the NSA-‘CSS Senior

Language and NSAI'CSS Senior Intelligence Authorities will maintain a global training
requirement for all cryptologie language and intelligence analysts performing various classes
of missions and functions: will identify the types of learning activities that meet the
requirement, based on current and projected needs and workforce statistics; and will provide
data on organizational compliance to SIGINT mission and Agency leadership. The ASA ('53
Senior language and Intelligence Authorities and line managers of relevant organizations
will ensure that at least 80% of all ctwtologio intelligence and language iitialtivtr will
engage in mo hours of'prexcribetl approved professional development ereijr two years; and
that at least l0% qflotigiioge and intelligence analysts working the counterierrorixtn mission
will be engaged in (tilt-'micec'l or specialized training (it any given time.”

. (Ui‘lFOUO) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in FY08, the DDCR and the

DDAP will cultivate client-consultant relationships with more customers to facilitate new
and more productive tasking and consumption of SlGlNT products and services. The DDAI’
will provide the SlGlN'l' Director with on annual report on the nrtiiiber. disposition. and
dociiiiieiiteil impact of anal ysts sewing itifiill—time consultancy 0.\‘Slglllllt?lln‘.

. (Cl-REL) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in FY08. the DDAP will increase

the practice of forward deploying analysts into customer workspaces to facilitate real-time
analysis and iterative consultation where needed. The DDAP Will provide the SlGli‘t’T
Director will! qttrirterb' .rnmmaries oftlte number and location offbrwai'd deplored analvxts
and their operational impact as assessed by customer .rnrvtgtr.

(L’lr’FOUO) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in FY08. the DDAP will
systematically hand off mature analytic tasks to qualified partners when doing so increases

(U) "the latter is already a requirement of the National Counterterrorism Intelligence Plan.

TOP SECRETIICOMINTIIREL TO USA. FVEYll20320108 6

