TOP SECRETllCOMINTIIREL TO USA, FVEYII20320108

the ettectiveness or efﬁciency of the resources available to the U.S govemment and the
SIGINT mission. The [JD/l P will provide the SIGINT Director with an annual report on the
tasks so franchised" over the previous ﬁscal year. how any recovered resources were
reempltn-ed, and the customer innate-ts ofhoth.

(ll) Goal 3: Annually increase the use of business cases to allocate pay and non-pay dollars and
scarce skills for better returns on investment than altemative ways of using the same resources.6

A. (U/FOlJO) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in FY03. the chief SlGlNl'
strategist will identify those skills that. for lack of critical mass. keep us from meaningfully
migrating to new net centric tools and techniques. even if resources are adequate to expand
existing types of collection. processing, or analysis operations. Prior to each year '3‘ program
build cycle. the chief SIG/NT strategist u'ill provide investment portfolio managers and the
SKili‘v’l' mission 's senior leadership with an annual list of work roles whose incumbents are
to he considered "scarce resources "ﬁtr business planning purposes.

8. (ll) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in FY08, the DDCR and the ADD
SIGDEV will fuse insight into technology and geopolitical trends and then clearly articulate
the prioritized implications for the SlGlN’l‘ mission. Prior to each year's program build
owls. the DIX 'R and the. ADD SIGDIJV will provide investment portfolio managers with
eastly consumable and actionable planning guidance aimed at avoiding technological or
strategic surprise and optimally ordering potential investments.

C. (U) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning with the FYIO-IS program build. the
Collection & Operations. Processing & Exploitation. Analysis & Production. and Mission
Management investment portfolio managers will revalidate or construct new business cases
covering ever larger proportions of their pay and non-pay submissions. As part of each
year 's program build (ycle. each oftheﬂmr investment managers will submit business cases
to the SIGINT Director covering more of thet r [wrtﬁilio than previous budgets.

 

(1}) The national intelligence program allocates pay and non-pay dollars to the SIGINT mission
through seven investment ponfolios, As discussed below. the work of each must be tailored For
success in a changing world. Ultimately. desired customer outcomes demand certain operational
concepts and Functions. These require sets of personnel and technical capabilities and supporting
infrastructure. all playing the right role at the right time as scripted by system engineering.

ll?! Collection and Operations

('l'St‘lSlllREL) Historically, we've arrayed independent accesses against various streams of point-
to-point communications. As we shift from intercepting links to exploiting networks though,
multiple collection platforms must be engineered and outﬁtted to work in eoncen. and often in
real-time. \"ast quantities of message extemals and other network metadata must be harvested.

6 (U) Such business cases should lake into account national priorities. geopolitical and technology forecasts,

misston assessment data. and defensible cos1 information

TOP SECRETIICOMINTIIREL TO USA, FVEYll20320108 7

