TOP SECRETIICOMINTIIREL T0 USA, FVEYII20320108

of the possible" and giving each customer’s own analytic workforce the power and knowledge to
reap. rather than just consume. SIGINT.

1U) Mission Management

(lir’t’FOUO) To optimize ever more complex. fast-moving, cross-access operations, we must
introduce intelligent agent technology that automatically updates tasking and status as it interacts
with technical infrastructure, visualization tools, and authoritative databases. To prevent
strategic surprise. we must track geopolitical and technology trends to identity potential gaps and
mitigate them before mission performance degrades. 'l'o aceotnmodate an increased fusion of
SlGlNT analysis with customer activities. we must develop new mission management tools that
capture and handle a freer ﬂow of interactions and new forms of support To pave the way for
more meaningful productivity estimates and more enlightened investment decisions, we must
instrtunent collection. processing. and dissemination systems so that sources can be linked
through analysis to customer outcotnes.

([3) Research

(St'HSlt'r‘REL) Our ability to master global networks and handle previously unimagined volumes
of raw data from both passive and active collection will depend in large part on successful
research. Requirements include ever more powerful methods of knowledge discovery and
management. highly capable software implants and mobile agents. optimal distributed storage
arrangements, and advanced analytic algorithms. Underpinning all this tnust be high
productivity computing systems and world-leading cryptanalytic talent that can both cope with
pervasive hard encryption and ﬁnd and exploit meaning in large data sets generally. Researchers
must also break new ground in the area of enterprise security management if we're to fully
realize a more interconnected. distributed, arid autonomous SIGINT operations fabric arid
geographically dispersed analytic collaboration.

1U) Enterprise IT and Enterprise Management

(UHFOUO) New operational strategies and capabilities can‘t deliver on their promises without
the right military. civilian. and contractor workforce. a ntodemized enterprise infonnation
technology infrastnrcture. and an assured 2|“I century physical plant. The quantity and quality of
language analysts. intelligence analysts. mathematicians. and computer network exploitation
specialists are priorities. as is rebuilding the acquisition. system engineering. and
businessfproject management workforce. Another imperative is modernizing enterprise
networks. platforms. and services: this effort ranges from bandwidth expansion. to server
consolidation and refresh. to introducing user tokens and other information assurance measures.
A third is dealing with long-defen'ed real property maintenance and the mitigation of long-
simmering power. space. and cooling shortfalls.

TOP SECRETIICOMINTIIREL TO USA. FVEYII20320108 9

