(Cl/REL) ICREAC H: Sharing SIGINT Comms Metadata with the Intel
Community

FROM:|
Tech Director, Target Analysis Center (SSGl)
Run Date: 09/27/2007

(CHREL) Remember when you were little and your mom always told you it was nice to share? I don't
know about you, but sometimes in the intervening years it seems we forget about that little axiom.
Recently those of us who are members of the Intelligence Community (IC) have been advised that we
have to do a lot more sharing. Congress has told us, the 9X11 and WMDl Commissions have reminded
us, and the Department of Defense strategy for improving operations insists on information sharing.
While NSA has been sharing information for years through tailored product reporting, write-to-release
efforts, ELINT2 metadata and tearline reporting, we are now going a step beyond that and are actually
sharing SIGIN T comm unicoﬂ'ons metadata through a program called ICREACH.

(SHREL) ICREACH intends to make more metadata accessible to our Intelligence Community brethren
primarily for the purposes of situational awareness and target development. This COMINT3 metadata is

not to be used for targeting; instead provisioning of the metadata to IC intelligence analysts should
foster greater collaboration on targets of interest. Like NSA's internal tool, GLOBALREACH,

ICREACH is a one-stop shopping tool for consolidated communications metadata analytic needs.

(SKIREL) Through ICREACH, IC analysts can access all appropriate data sets related to telephony (and
eventually DNI‘1 data) with a single login. The IC intelligence analysts will be validated by the
ICREACH point of contact from their particular agency, must be part of the US. Intelligence
Community, must hold a TSH’SI clearance and must have a PKI certificate in order to access the data
through JWICS5 . Each person will be provided an account only after their need for it is verified by the
Agency POC and they have received training on the too], the procedures, and the technologies
represented in the metadata.

(SHSIHREL) For the first time, IC intelligence analysts will have immediate access to SIGINT lst Party

metadata as soon as the data is loaded in the centralized metadata repository. The FASCIA Call, PCSE ,
and INMARSAT tables will be the first ones accessed in the ICREACH Beta release, now being piloted

by a very limited number of IC analysts’. Reference data from other NSA projects like
ASSOCIATION. TAPERLAY. and CONTRAOCTAVE is also queried. If the number is tasked in
OCTAVE, a simple "yes" is returned with the event data.

 

 

(SHSIHREL) Responses thus far from the beta testers have been largely positive with some very
interesting questions, comments, observations and suggestions being provided, considered, and where
possible, implemented. Future plans call for a rollout to additional IC agencies and Unified Commands
(DIA and STRATCOMﬂ are next on the list for training) and access to other sources of metadata. NSA
and CIA are developing an interface to enable access to their metadata through
ICREACI-L’GLOBALREACH so that there is a reciprocal exchange of information.

(UﬂFOUO) If you have questions on ICREACH, you may direct them to the following individuals:

- For questions about the rollout of ICREACH to the next sets of usersz—Sl,

