7. NSA: for the foreseeable future, NSA has two separate definitions of what
constitutes content based on E0 12333 and FISAIPAA collection. FISA considers
communications data to be part of the content of the communication, hence FISA has
no separate concept of metadata. All discussions at the conference were therefore
focused on “standard" collection under the authority of E0 12333.

8. There is a constitutional expectation of privacy within the US. For
communications data this is harder to quantify than for content. New procedures will
permit a differentiation between content and communications data allowing for far
greater data usage and advancing other related changes. A tension remains
between the desires to minimise shared data containing US identifiers, and engaging
more openly to support the foreign cryptologic mission.

9. It is harder to define what constitutes a US identifier with DNI data - where unclear
it is treated as US. NSA is moving from minimised records within their databases to
minimising identifiers within reports. Sharing unmasked US identifiers with second
party SIGINT partners will be easier than with some US domestic partners.

10. All: All SIGINT agencies seek to protect their equities, especially relating to
Special Source Exploitation (SSE)

11.Specia| categories of data were considered in the context of their potential to
contribute to pattern of life analysis. An increasing amount of new data types are
available to SIGINT agencies, some proving difficult to categorise as either content or
communications data. The conference agreed to step back from trying to categorise
the data and simply to focus on what is shareable in bulk.

 

12. Consideration was given as to whether any types of data were prohibited, for ° 3"" "0""m“5"-
example medica|,_legal, religious or restricted business information, which may be

regarded as an intrusion of privacy. Given the nascent state of many of these data

types then no, or limited, precedents have been set with respect to proportionality or

propriety, or whether different legal considerations applies to the “ownership" of this

data compared with the communications data that we were more accustomed to

handle. It was agreed that the conference should not seek to set any automatic

limitations, but any such difficult cases would have to be considered by “owning"

agency on a case-by-case basis.

(comment: NSA normally considers any target data (pattern of life or other) that can
be characterized as “foreign intelligence“ as proper for collection. analvsis and

[M

