 

 

35.(d) ICREACH: Sstill a pilot, this provides minimised DNR data to Sigint-cleared
and appropriately trained analysts across the US Intelligence community. Second
Party derived data is currently not made available to US lntelliqence Cemmunitv
(lCttdomestictdemes-tieaoencies (although GCSB has agreed that theier DNH
metadata may be shared), but such data would be valued. In the hope that such
agreement will be forthcoming, NSA has persuaded other US lC agencies to make
almost 100 bn previously NOFORN records shareable with the 5-eyes via GLOBAL
REACH. VolP is treated as DNR though with only DNR records and fields shown to
analysts. Making DNI available through ICREACH is currently restricted due to
limited automated (general counsel approved) methods teprevented—bv—US—pelieyeen
minimize DNI metadataatien.

 

36.‘Deconfliction' is not formalised through ICREACH. Query records can potentially
be used to alert analysts that other analysts are looking at the same data.
Decontlicting operations remains a tough challenge requiring increased coordination
of operations and collaboration.

37.There is interest in the relationship between the implementation of A-SPACE [a
US. DNI initiative to link all US. lC analvsts to common tools, and sharable
databases and allow for greater collaboration) and ICREACH inasmuch as it may
affect Second Parties' internal procedures and access Issues with domestic
agencies.

38.(e) U_.S._NSCID§: This is a specific method of NSA providimshanne uniminimized
SIGINT data to CIA (as it CIA had collected it itself) in support otithe latter's
operational mission:,—and-d|;)ata from Second Parties is shared with CIA in

accordance with special agreements between NSA and each second party.

39. GCHQ are employing methods (a) and (b). For military SIGINT needs GCHQ
uses GCO's1 to reach back to UK and 5-EYES repositories. The military's work
within the ambit of the National SIGINT Organisation comes under the authority of
GCHQ.

 

40. NSA shares US SIGINT data with all US SIGINT elements that operate under
DIRNSA's operational controlaoeneies. With Second Parties there is an initial
minimisation of the data when possible; however all secend parties have agreed to
abide by US. minimization criteria; Efor US intelligence agencies NSA mustthere—is
further- minimizesing—et the data, before sharing and for other US agencies (such as
law enforcement) NSA only provides data under its "technical support" mission.
Currently. all such data is minimized betore sharithisamtheHuﬁvaeLef
minimising—et-dat-a-{most restricted data set.)

 

 

 

. - Comment Page: 6
The ‘US' was Implicit In this statement bu no:
voiced at the t'me.

