RCS 9 - Whatyou should know aboutTacchal Control Center

Data Description

 

Network List of connected network interfaces. Select the injection interface connected to the
interface network on which the device to be attacked is connected.

Snifﬁng Like Network Interface or another network interface to only be used for sniffing.

interface 6 NOTE: If the system includes an Endace DAG card for Gigabit connections,
' the card will be detected and displayed in this list.

Public IP Lets you specify a public IP address to be mapped on the injection interface private
IP address. If "auto" is entered, the system uses default IP address on the injection
interface and send a message indicating that it is a private IP address.

Automatic It automatically restarts the infection without any human intervention even
Startup following Appliance Network Injector reboot or shutdown.

6 IM PORTANT: If this option is not selected, infection will not be
automatically started.

What you should know about Tactical Control Center

Introduction

Tactical Control Center is an application installed on a notebook, called Tactical Network Injector.

It can connect to a protected WiFi network, infect devices thanks to RC5 identification and
injection rules or infect manually identified devices.

The identification and infection rules are the same as those used for Network Injector Appliance,
with the sole difference that Tactical Network Injector provides an additional "manual"
identiﬁcation rule. Thus the operator identifies the device to be infected and applies the injection
rules to that device.

Tactical Control Center operations
With Tactical Control Center you can:

. Enable synchronization with RC5 to receive updated identiﬁcation and injection rules and
send logs.

0 Update Tactical Control Center, essentially to update agents on devices.

1- Automatically identify devices in a wired or WiFi network and infect them according to the
RC5 identification and injection rules.

1- Manually identify devices in a wired or WiFi network and infect them according to the RC5
injection rules. The operator is in charge of identification.

. Connect to a protected WiFi network to obtain its password.

0 Emulate a WiFi network Access Point normally used by the target.

 

Technician's Guide | ver.1.5 SEP—2013 | RCS 9 | 2013. HTS.r.l. - pag. 80

