RC5 9 - Protected WiFi network password acquisiﬁon

 

Protected WiFi network password acquisition
If the target device is connected to a protected WiFi network, the access password must be
obtained to login.

The Wireless intruder function lets you connect to a WiFi network and crack the password. For
WPA and WPA 2 protected networks, an additional dictionary can be loaded in addition to the
standard dictionary. The password is displayed and the operator can copy it to use it with the
sniffing and injection function (Network Injector function).

Infection via automatic identification
This work mode is suited for situations when some target device information is known (i.e-: IP
address).

In this case, RC5 injection rules include all the data required to automatically identify target
devices.

Starting automatic identiﬁcation using the Network Injector function gradually displays target
devices that are immediately infected by the injection rules.

Forcing unknown device authentication

You may not be able to connect to some devices in a password protected WiFi network. These
types of devices appear in the list as unknown.

In this case, their authentication can be forced: the device will disconnect from the network,
reconnect and be identiﬁed.

Infection via manual identification

Manual identiﬁcation can be indicated in RC5 identification rules. This procedure is frequently run
when there is no information on the device to be infected and it must be identified on the ﬁeld.

In this case, a series of functions to select devices connected to the network is available to the
operator:

. filters can be set on tapped traffic: only devices that meet this criteria are infected.

0 each device chronology can be checked to decide which device should be infected.

Once target devices are identified, simply select them to start infection; the identiﬁcation rules
are "customized" with the device data to allow injection rules to be applied.

0 NOTE: devices that were already infected via automatic identification can be
manually infected.

Setting filters on tapped traffic

When manually identifying targets, some targets may not be identified among those connected to
the network. In this case, use the Network Injector function to set filters on tapped traffic.

Tactical Control Center provides to types of ﬁlters:

 

Technician's Guide I ver.1.5 SEP—2013 I RCS 9 I 2013. HTS.r.l. - pag. 33

