RC5 9 - Filter wilh regular expression

1- regular expressions
1- Network BPF (Berkeley Packet Filter)

Filter with regular expression

Regular expressions are broad filters. For example, if our target is visiting a Facebook page and
talking about windsurf, simply enter "facebook" or "windsurf".

Tactical Network Injector taps all traffic data and searches for the entered words.

For further information on all admitted regular expressions, see
https:f/en.wikipedia.orgfwiki/Regular expression .

BPF (Berkeley Packet Filter] network filter

This is used to more accurately filter devices using BPF syntax (Berkeley Packet Filter). This syntax
includes key words accompanied by qualifiers:

. type quoiifiers (i.e.: host, net, port), indicate the type of object searched for

1- direction quoiiﬂers (i.e.: src, dst) indicate the direction of the data searched for

. protocoi quoiifiers (i.e.: ether, wlan, ip) indicate the protocol used by the object searched
for

For example, if our target is visiting a Facebook page, enter "host facebook.com"
For further details on syntax qualifiers, see http:I/wiki.wireshark.orngaptureFilters.

Identifying a target by analyzing the chronology

Another way to filter and shorten the list of possible targets is to analyze device web traffic to
identify it as the target.

Emulating an Access Point known by the target

In certain scenarios target devices must be attracted to tap their data, indentify and infect them.
To do this, Tactical Network Injector emulates an Access Point already known to the target device.

This way, if the device is enabled to automatically connect to available WiFi networks, it
automatically connects to the Access Point emulated by Tactical Network Injector as soon as it
enters the WiFi area. .

Tactical Control Center

Purpose
Tactical Control Center lets you identify and infest devices:
a automatically, by applying the identiﬁcation rules based on known device information
(i.e.: IP address)

 

Technician's Guide I ver.1.5 SEP—2013 I RCS 9 I 2013. HTS.r.l. - pag. 34

