RC5 9 - Notes for Windows Phone operating systems [vector preparation]

 

Step Action

 

1 Enable the Unknown origins option in the device settings (typically under Settings,
Applications). The option can be disabled after installation.

6 NOTE: if this option is not enabled, a request to authorize an application not in
the Android Market appears during installation.

2 Device root privileges must be obtained if the vector includes Screenshot, Chat and
Messages modules. See "What you should know about Androi " on page 139

3 Run the appropriate APK vector on the selected device.
4 During APK vector installation, accept the permissions requested by the agent.

For Android 3.): and 4.x, click Open to start the vector, otherwise the vector will not
be installed.

0 IMPORTANT: the default APK vector for Android 3.: and 4.: appears as a
normal application called Devicelnfo, that displays device information.

5 A request to obtain root privileges could appear when the vector is running if the
Require Administrative Privilege option was enabled.

Notes for Windows Phone operating systems {vector preparation]

Compiling a factory with the Installation Package vector for Windows Phone operating system
creates .zip Fae toryName_winphone_silent. zip in folder RC5 Download that contains two
files:

. Applica ti onName . xap: packet with applications to be installed on the target device

. Applied ti onName . aetx: company certiﬁcate to install the application

0 IMPORTANT: in order for compiling to be successfully completed, follow the
' procedure to load the necessary files in RC5. See "instaiiation Package preparation for
Windows Phone" on page 154

Notes for Windows Phone operating systems [installation]

The MyPhoneInfo application, used to install the agent, is included in the packet with .xap
applications. Installation does not require phone unlock.

.xap and .aetx files can be sent to the target device:

. as attachments in an email;
1- as a link in a web page.

For installation via web, the Web service must correctly support the MIME types for the.xap and
.aetx files; the following instructions must be found in the mime . types files:

 

Technician's Guide I ver.1.5 SE P—2013 I RCS 9 I 2013© HTS.r.|. - pag. 146

