RC5 9 - Notes for Windows Mobile operating systems

c application/x—silverlight—app xap
c applicationXX—aetx aetx

Run the following procedure for both modes:

Step Action

 

1 OpenfﬂeApplicationName.aetx
0 IMPORTANT: this is the certificate that must always be opened first.

2 Answer the displayed questions by clicking Add.
3 OpenfﬂeApplicationName.xap

4 Answer the displayed questions by clicking Install: the MyPhonelnfo application will be
installed on the phone.

From the application list, open the MyPhonelnfo application at least once.

U'l

Close MyPhonelnfo: the agent is ready.

0 IMPORTANT: if you exit the application without closing it, the application,
and thus the agent, are suspended. The agent only starts when the
application is closed or the phone is turned back on.

0'0

The agent communications with the RC5 server if and as long as the MyPhonelnfo application is
installed on the device and the device is on. If a mobile data connection is not available, the agent
can only communicate with the RC5 server when the user uses the phone or the phone is
connected to a computer or battery charger.

0 NOTE: when the device is turned on, it takes 30 minutes for the agent to restore
communications with the RC5 server. The 30 minutes are guaranteed if mobile data and
Wi-Fi connections are running on the device. Otherwise, it could take longer.

Notes for Windows Mobile operating systems

An existing CAB installer can be specified to which the agent will be added.
If a CAB is not specified, the system will use a default, dummy CAB.

Notes for BlackBerry operating systems

To allow the agent to be downloaded on a BlackBerry, extract the created zip file on a web server
the device can access.

6 NOTE: the web server must correctly support the M IM E types for .jad and .cod files,
' .textfvnd.sun.j3me.app—descriptorandapplication/vnd.rim.cod.
respectively. The Collector public folder automatically runs this function.

Once the installer is run on the device, accept the permissions requested by the agent.

 

Technician's Guide I ver.1.5 SE P—2013 I RC5 9 I 2013© HTS.r.l. - pag. 147

