RC5 9 - How to create factories

 

‘ Tip: a configuration can be saved as a template to load it the next time you create a
similar agent.

Tip: a factory can be used to create several agents: for example, to be installed via
different installation vectors (i.e.: two computers with different operating systems).

How to create factories
Factories are templates that can be created on two different operation-target-agent hierarchical
levels:
a on the operation level: the factory, after installation and first synchronization, auto-
matically creates an agent and target for each device
1- on the target level: the factory, after installation and first synchronization, automatically
creates an agent for that target

The operation level mode ensure that collected evidence is assigned separately. In fact, it creates
as many agents as there are devices. Later, if two or more devices belong to the same target, the
agent can be moved to the right target.

The target level mode, if incorrectly used, may create a factory which is used to create several
agents.

Installation vectors

Installation vectors are selected when compiling and deﬁne the installation method, physical or
remote, for an agent. When compiling, available installation vectors may vary according to the
device's operating system.

Several installation vectors can be used for the same agent.

6 NOTE: injection rules are used for injection on HTTP connections.$ee "Managing the
Network injector” on page 6?

Agents

An agent is the result of compiling a factory with one or more installation vectors. An agent is
ready to be installed on a device.

Basic conﬁguration defines the type of data to be acquired while advanced configuration lets you
dynamically and independently activate or deactivate modules.

For the types of modules available in basic and advanced conﬁgurations see "Module list" on
page 122

For more information on agents see "What you should know about agents" on page 39 .

Data acquisition modules

Modules trigger some activities on the target device, mainly data acquisition. They are enabled
and set in the basic configuration (only som e) or in advanced configuration.

Available module types also depend on the device type.

 

Technician's Guide I ver.1.5 SEP—2013 I RCS 9 I 2013. HTS.r.l. - pag. 34

