RCS 9 - What you should know about basic conﬁguration

 

What you should know about basic configuration

Basic configuration

The basic factory/agent conﬁguration let you enable and quickly set evidence acquisition.

Basic conﬁguration does not include the acquisition of some types of evidence nor detailed
acquisition method options.

Default basic conﬁguration:

0 System information acquisition when the device is turned on (cannot be disabled)
0 A module to run synchronization between the agent and RCS at a certain interval.

For the list of module types available in the basic configuration see "Basic conﬁguration data" on
page 53 .

CAUTlON: when returning from advanced configuration to basic configuration, the
advanced configuration will be lost and the default basic configuration will be restored.

Exporting and importing configuration settings

Base or advanced conﬁguration settings are exported/imported to reuse the settings on other RC5
systems.

The base or advanced configuration settings are exported in a .json ﬁle that can be transferred to
another system and imported when creating an agent.

Saving the configuration settings as a template

Base or advanced conﬁgurations settings are saved as a template to have other users on the same
RC5 system reuse the conﬁguration.

The base or advanced configuration settings are saved as a template in the database,
accompanied by a description and the name of the user. When creating another target, another
user can load it and thus it becomes the conﬁguration for that agent.

0 IMPORTANT: base and advanced configuration templates are saved separately in the

database. Base configuration templates thus appear when creating an agent with a
base configuration, advanced configuration templates appear when creating an agent
with an advanced configuration.

Basic factory or agent configuration

- Operationssection, double-click an operation, double-click a target, double-click an agent

To setfuctories and | o Dperationssection, double-click an operation, double-click a target, double-click a factory
agents:

Purpose
This function lets you:

 

Technician's Guide I ver.1.5 SEP—2013 I RC8 9 I 2013. HTS.r.I. - pag. 50

