RC5 9 - Modules
0 NOTE: an action can enablefdisable several events simultaneously.

Modules

Each module enables the collection of a specific evidence from the target device. They can be
started/stopped by an action and produce evidence.

For example, a Position module (log the GPS position) can be started by an action triggered by a
Call event (a call was made/received).

Various modules are available that can be started/stopped (i.e.: start position module + stop
screenshot module). For the complete listsee ’Modufe list" on page 122 .

Exporting and importing configuration settings

Base or advanced conﬁguration settings are exportedfimported to reuse the settings on other RC5
systems.

The base or advanced configuration settings are exported in a .json ﬁle that can be transferred to
another system and imported when creating an agent.

Saving the configuration settings as a template

Base or advanced conﬁgurations settings are saved as a template to have other users on the same
RC5 system reuse the conﬁguration.

The base or advanced configuration settings are saved as a template in the database,
accompanied by a description and the name of the user. When creating another target, another
user can load it and thus it becomes the conﬁguration for that agent.

0 IMPORTANT: base and advanced configuration templates are saved separately in the

' database. Base configuration templates thus appear when creating an agent with a
base configuration, advanced configuration templates appear when creating an agent
with an advanced configuration.

Advanced factory or agent configuration

To open advancedcon- 0 Operations section, double-click an operation, double-click a target, double-click a factory,
figuration: click Advanced Config
0 Operations section, double-click an operation, double-click a target, double-click an agent,
click Advanced Config

Purpose
This function lets you:

. create module activation sequences triggered by events occurring on the target device.

Each sequence can be made up of one or more sub-actions.
a Set general factory/agent conﬁguration options.

6 NOTE: the function is only enabled if the user has Agent configuration authorization.

 

Technician's Guide I ver.1.5 SEP—2013 I RCS 9 I 2013. HTS.r.l. - pag. 59

