RCS 9 - What you should know about Network Injector and its rules

 

What you should know about Network Injector and its rules

Introduction

Network Injector monitors all the HTTP connections and, following the injection rules, identifies
the target's connections and injects the agent into the connections, linking it to the resources the
target is downloading from Internet.

Network Injector types
There are two Network Injector types:

0 Appliance: network server for installation in an intra-switch segment at an Internet service

provider.
0 Tactical: laptop for tactical installation on LAN or WiFi networks

Both Network Injectors let you automatically identify the target devices and infect them according
to the set rules via their control software (Appliance Control Center or Tactical Control Center).
Tactical Network Injectors also allow for manual identification.

See "What you should know about Network Injector Appliance ", "What you should know about
Tactical Control Center" a pagl r1080 .

Types of resources that can be infected
Resources that can be infected by RCS are any type of files.

6 NOTE: Network Injector is not able to monitor FTP or HTTPS connections.

How to create a rule
To create a rule:

1. define the way to identify the target's connections. For example, by matching the target's
IP or MAC address. Or let the Tactical Network Injector operator select the device.

2. define the way to infect the target. For example, by replacing a ﬁle the target is
downloading from the web or by infecting a website the target usually visits.

Automatic or manual identification rules

If information is already known on target devices, numerous rules can be created, adapting them
to the target's different habits, then enabling the most efficient rule or rules according to the
situations that arise during a certain time in the investigation.

If no information is known on target devices, use Tactical Network Injector which allows operators
to observe the target, identify the device used and infect it since on the field.

For this type of manual control specify TACTICAL in the User patterns field in the injection rule.

 

Technician's Guide I ver.1.5 SEP—2013 I RC8 9 I 2013. HTS.r.l. - pag. 66

