NSA's DNI architecture. The JSAJ an operational element of' the Special US Liaison
Activity Germany [SUSLAGL is ajoint SIGINT development; collection; and
exploitation site manned by German and US personnel.

[SHED END analysts discussed their processing architecture; which is largely
based on NSA's old P25 and P26 GRANDMASTEE prototypes. Their focus is
primarily e-maiI processing; specifically SMTP e-mail. Spam filters are used to
manage large data volumes. Selected trafﬁc is passed through an automated
privacy protection system; ensuring that analysts cannot viev.r German-protected
trafﬁc. Urn-site END analysts then manually assess all selected trafﬁc to determine
potential intelligence value.

[SHED In conducting this evaluation; they do not prioritize the selected trafﬁc by
target or keyword. Instead they focus on e-mails carrying attachments with the
goal to scan e-mails as quickly as possible to increase their throughput. E-mails
that are determined to he of'potential intelligence value are then forwarded to END
HUS f'or follow-on evaluation and reporting.

[SHED NSA intelligence analysts discussed NSA's SIGINT Development model;
NSA's "Hunt versus Gather" philosophy; our multi-stage selection and ﬁltering
process; and the evolution of'DNI processing systems from GEANDMASTEE to
WEALTHYCLUSTEE and; in the future; TUEMDIL. The END appeared especially
interested in the TUEMDIL approach of' scanning and making judgments at the
packet level prior to any sessionizing.

[SHED In summary NBA and END use opposite selection and ﬁltering
approaches. Where NSA primarily relies on equipment for selection [e.g.
ELACKNIGHT} and analyst minimization for privacy protection; the END relies on
analysts to manually scan trafﬁc for selection; and then equipment to filter data for
privacy protection. Full use of' current NSA DNI processing systems and analysis
methodologies at JSA will be key to inﬂuencing the END to alter their strategic DNI
processing approach.

*[U] Note: END = Germany's Eundesnachrichtendienst [the Federal Intelligence
Service}

 

[D] This article is reprinted from the Foreign Aﬁhirs Digest; April edition.

2of3

