TOP SECRET STRAP1 COMINT
BULLRUN Col - Briefing Sheet

Introduction

1. The ability to exploit targets’ encrypted communications is extremely fragile and is
often enabled through sensitive ECI programmes. The need to take additional
measures to protect that capability has long been recognised. Currently, virtually
all decryption is carried out by PTD (ARTHUR) processing with decrypts going to
the MB in the NOCON Col; some decrypts are placed in the ENDUE Col due to
the sensitivity or fragility of the exploitation capability.

2. In recent years there has been an aggressive effort, lead by NSA, to make major
improvements in defeating network security and privacy involving multiple
sources and methods, all of which are extremely sensitive and fragile. These
include: Computer Network Exploitation (CNE); collaboration with other

Intelligence Agencies; investment in high—performance com uters and
development of advanced mathematical techniques*

3, Making the best use of these new capabilities requires that decryption processing
be widely deployed beyond PTD and the results of that processing be available to
a wide range of analysts. This inevitably makes it. harder to protect this sensitive
and fragile capability and we need to counterbalance this by introducing
measures to control access to this material and heighten awareness of the

sensitivities amongst those who have access.

4. To achieve this, NSA has introduced the BULLRUN Col to protect our abilities to
defeat the encryption used in network communication technologies, This covers
both the “fact of” a capability against a specific technology and resulting decrypts
(which may be either plaintext or metadata (events). GCHQ is also introducing
BULLRUN. (CSEC, DSD and GCSB are expected to do likewise.)

Control Authority
5. The BULLRUN Col is owned by the Deputy Director for Penetrating Target

Defences (PTD) Authority to manage thWed to the PTD Lead for
Special Operations and Policy (currently and the PTD Security

and Release Authority (OPC—SEC, currently

 
  
 
  
 

BULLRUN Sensitivity and Coverage

(.3. It is imperative to protect the fact that GCHQ, NSA and their Sigint partners have
capabilities against specific network security technologies as well as the number
and scope of successes, These capabilities are among the Sigint community’s
most fragile, and the inadvertent disclosure of the simple “fact of” could alert the
adversary and result in immediate loss of the capability. Consequently, any
admission of “fact of’ a capability to defeat encryption used in specific network
communication technologies or disclosure of details relating to that capability
must be protected by the BULLRUN COI and restricted to those specifically

10f4

Trti- ‘ iii In aiim is mom ’ f.or;1di~:r.'nsu.e undo me FI'L,dCrO r of lntonmlion (ct N700 and m: I be sub'ect in exum viion order
char lit: infcrinot‘g“ legislation Refer disc'smxe rczcuesls tr CCriQ 0.1 emoll—

 
 

