TOP SECRET STRAP1 COMINT

indoctrinated for BULLRUN. The various types of security covered by BULLRUN
include, but are not limited to, TLS/SSL, https (e.g. webmail), SSH, encrypted
chat, VPNs and encrypted VOlP. The speciﬁc instances of these technologies
that can be exploited will be published in a separate Annexe (available to

BULLRUN indoctrinated staff).

7. In addition to the specific technologies that GCHQ or its Sigint partners are able
to exploit, the methods used to achieve the exploitation must also be protected.
These include support from other organisations, both internal and external to
GCHQ. Access to BULLRUN does NOT imply any “needwto-know” the details of
sources and methods used to achieve exploitation and, in general, there will be
NO “need~to~kn0w". Requests for access to information on sources and methods
should be sent to OPC—SEC; if considered appropriate, this access may require
clearance for certain ECls.

8. BULLRUN material, data, and details must be protected with the use of the
BULLRUN Col and be marked with the label “BULLRUN,” in addition to the
required privacy marking and other descriptors. Use of the BULLRUN marking

is restricted to GCHQ and its Sigint 2”” Parties.

Access and Security

9. Requests for access to the Col must be sponsored by a G08 or above and must
be accompanied by a business case outlining the “need-to-know”. Access for
contractors will be limited and will require a strong business case; such requests
should be discussed with the Col Authority’s delegates before submission.
Requests for access are to be sent by email to PTDAccesses.

10. Knowledge of BULLRUN information and access to the BULLRUN Col will only
be granted to indoctrinated individuals.

11. it is the responsibility of sponsors (or their successors) to notify OPC-SEC (via
PTDAccesses) when an individual no longer require access to BULLRUN.

Handling Procedures

12. Owners of BULLRUN materials are responsible for correctly marking the
information and for ensuring that it is handled according to guidelines for
protecting classified or COl information.

13. Reports derived from BULLRUN material shall not reveal (or imply) that the
source data was decrypted, The network communication technology that carried

the communication should not be revealed.

14. Further dissemination, other than in product reports, of any data or information
derived from BULLRUN data must be thoroughlyjustified and receive prior

approval from OPC—SEC.

20M

on Ac 200.3 1.an am 1? f: '

 

Th} "iii nrratisn is exmnr 1 ton o'i ciasr. :<. urrit r trie Freedom 0‘ into: : at?
Oil rrr l 'K f.ifcrm (iron in :‘ islctiori. Rule di‘}C'()°Ui(3 rur‘ues‘ts it CC" 0 or

 
  

