a chance to reminisce!?!
[U] You know you are a BA yeteran if...

...driying eight hours to buy pottery is a. day well spent.
...you get excited to see a "new release" that has been out in the States for almost a
yean

...dreaming ofhoney wagons is anything but sweet.

...miXing lemon-lime soda with beer doesn't always seem like a bad idea.

...you have seen 1|].IIIIIIIII people do the Macarena in a tent.

...you know that UPPER. Bayaria is SOUTH ofLDWER. Bavaria.

...you'ye seen Neuschwanstein or the Glockenspiel in Munich 53 times. and never
because YDU wanted to go.

...you'ye been to "town hall'“ meetings at which a final decision to close the site was
announced in three different years.

...you attended both the final closing and re-opening of the AFRC facilities at
Chiemsee.

...Derek the car registration guy has called you "mate".

...you bought a sea-yan's worth ofWindeX. "just because it was in stock today".
...you have spent $200 worth of time to get $40 worth of Italian gas coupons.
...while dining. you consistently chose beer as your beyerage because it was half
the price of Coke!

...you missed a day of mission work to yeriiy the slot machine take at the club.
...you'ye concluded that. as a. general rule in restaurants. German dogs behaye
better than some American patrons.

...your windshield still has an Austrian Autobahn Toll Vignette on it.

...driying on the Autobahn at 120' mph seems far safer than traveling the
Washington Beltway.

...you know that leberkaese is made neither of liver. nor cheese.

...you welcomed biergarten season because a non-smoking restaurant was never an
option.

...you swapped free biers for free pizza at the 4th ofjuly fest.

...you understand why perfectly normal people bang tiny bottles ofschnapps on a
fest table before drinking them.

...you purchased window screens and Velcro tape in order to keep mosguitoes from
inyading your house.

...you had a. map ofeyery ESSD- gas station in Germany and planned your trips
accordingly.

...you understood why you needed to have someone guard your vehicle when you
went pottery shopping in Poland.

...you packed out to return to the States. but bought more stuff and had to ship it
home with a friend who was leaving after you.

...you sought out the person with the schedule for working the beer booth at the
4th ofJuly fest.

...you were a recipient ofa "free bier at the club" email.

Eof3

