TOP SECRET/ICOMINT/INOFORN

SIGINT FISA data. Figure 2 illustrates the most common root causes for incidents involving FISA authorities
as determined by SV.

0 63% (123) of 1QCY12 FISA incidents can be attributed to Operator Error as the root cause, and
involved:
0 Resources ( i.e., inaccurate or insufﬁcient research information and/or workload issues (60);
0 Lack of due diligence (i.e., failure to follow standard operating procedures) (39);
0 Human error (21) which encompassed:
I Broad syntax (i.e., no or insufficient limiters / defeats / parameters) (12);
I T ypographical error (6);
I Query technique understood but not applied (2); and
I Incorrect option selected in tool (1); and
0 Training and guidance (i.e., training issues) (3).

(U/lFOUO) The Resources root cause category accounted for the largest percentage of Operator Error
incidents under FISA authorities for 1QCY12. Analysis identiﬁed that these incidents could be reduced if
analysts had more complete and consistent information available about selectors and/or targets at the time of
tasking and if analysts consistently applied rules for conducting queries.

0 37% (72) of 1QCY12 FISA incidents can be attributed to System Error as the root cause, and
involved:
0 System limitations (i.e., system lacks the capability to ‘push’ real-time travel data out to
analysts, system/device unable to detect changes in user) (67);
0 System engineering (i.e., system/database developed without the appropriate oversight
measures, data ﬂow issues, etc.) (4); and,
0 System disruptions (i.e., glitches, bugs, etc.) (1).

(U/lFOUO) The System Limitations root cause category accounted for the largest percentage of System
Error incidents under FISA authorities for 1QCY12. The largest number of incidents in the System Limitations
category account for roamers where there was no previous indications of the planned travel. These incidents are
largely unpreventable. Consistent discovery through the Visitor Location Register (VLR) occurs every quarter
and provides analysts with timely information to place selectors into candidate status or detask. Analysis
identified that these incidents could be reduced if analysts removed/detasked selectors more quickly upon
learning that the status of the selector had changed and more regularly monitored target activity. This analysis
indicates that continued research on ways to exploit new technologies and researching the various aspects of
personal communications systems to include GSM, are an important step for NSA analysts to track the travel of
valid foreign targets.

Page 3 of 13

TOP SECRET/ICOMINT/INOFORN

