DDCID:

4086223

3L ,\i: 1 31 \ [\J CUSn. . v L (13)“)
(b)(3)-P.L. 86-36

(I) fSﬁ‘S-I') Only to appropriate federal law enforcement agencies; and gagig 8:3 38:40)

(2) (67945-13 Only insofar as the information relates t-llicit

narcotics shipments.

c. 68798-13 Technical data concerning frequency and channel use and direction ﬁnding
results derived from any communication monitored under subparagraph 5.1. c. may be
disseminated to appropriate law enforcement agencies

5. 4 (UHF-GHQ) Information collected under subparagraph 5.1 a and subparagraph 5.1. c. may
be disseminated to appropriate federal authorities when no information of concerning U S
persons is involved '

5.5. ('Své‘S-B Access to technical data bases will be restricted to SIGINT collection and analytic
personnel. Requests for access from other personnel or entities shall/be referred to the SIGINT
Director, except that technical data concerning frequency and channel use. and direction ﬁnding
results. derived from collection performed under Section 3. may be disseminated to appropriate
federal law enforcement agencies without speciﬁc SIGINT Director approval.

5.6. 6696+) Information revealing a threat to human life orphysic al safety may be
disseminated by ﬁeld elements to appropriate federal authorities without prior review by the
SIGINT Director. On the other hand. dissemination of such information by NSA Headquarters'
elements requires prior approval of the SIGINT Directo r.,~"The National Security Operations
Center (NSOC). Senior Operations Ofﬁcer (SOO), isauthorized to approve dissemination
after normal duty hours or in time-sensitive situations/f

5.7. 66/7483 Information derived from interceptedﬂcommunications. solely between US.

persons. which does not relate to illicit narcotics. but which reveals signiﬁcant
foreign intelligence or counterintelligence affecting substantial national security interests. may
be disseminated to appropriate federal authorities, if approved by DIRNSA.

SECTION 6 - (U) IDENTIFICATION OF U.S. PERSONS

6.1. (a Field elements may provide the identities of US. persons to federal authorities when
the information relates to a threat to human life or physical safety without prior case-by-case
approval of the SIGINT Director.

6.2. (6945-3 In all other cases, identiﬁcation of US. persons in information disseminated
outside the SIGINT system requires approval of the SIGINT Director. After normal duty hours
or in time-sensitive situations the NSOC S00 is authorized to act for the SIGINT Director.

 

 

