“WW”! (U) utility at "security conferences" 5 E 5] (hide)

2012.02.08 - 09:53 am
Do not reuse

this image!

 

(UHFOUO) Caveat: it's been a couple years since I have attended a security
conferencelShmooconiDefconiBlackhatJ. My opinions are not formed from recent first-hand
experience. but through previous stimuli to my cerebrum that have been confirmed by 2nd hand
experience over the last couple of years. When I first went to BlackhatIDefcon. it was with the
wide-eyed anticipation of. "I'm going to go listen to all of the talks that I can. soak up all of the
information possible. and become a supar-1337-haxxor." What a let-down of an experience that
was. You find the most interesting topics and briefings. wait in lines to get a seat. and find
yourself straining your ears to listen to someone that has basically nothing new to say Most of
the talks get hyped up exponentially past any amount of substance they actually provide. most of
the "interactive sessions" end up in a "oh! woe is the state of the security industry!" chant. and
leave the audience no better off than before.

(UHFOUO) If you want to learn crazy new things. more often than not. you won't find it at a talk in a
con. Why not walk around NSA. find people in offices that do things you find interesting. and talk
to them about how they do what they do(or find a mentor in that area)? Despite stereotypes of
the kinds of people that work here. many people are kind and open enough to share their
trade-craft with others. We have the luxury of working in a community that has some of the
brightest. smartest. and most cutting edge people around. it would be a shame for people to
constantly attend cons hoping to learn that "cool new thing". when there is exponentially more
knowledge sitting around them every single day at work.

(UHFOUO) Granted. there are always a couple exceptional talks at the cons. but. in my humble
opinion. they don't make up for the overall lack of content. So. what good are these conferences?
My personal opinion is that their utility is mainly for social interaction and meeting *relatively*
like-minded individuals. It's the ability to kick back for a weekend and geek-out with other people.
For some. this makes the cost of the con completely worth it. others may be severely
disappointed...it all depends on what you expect to get out of it.

Fl
Current Maudie-Joke}:

Leave a comment

