TOP SECRETIISIIIREL TO USA. PUEY

“WWW“ (sasmnen I hunt people who hack routers (part 5) a E [5] (hide)

2012.12.14- 01:08 pm
Do not reuse

_ _ Entry tags: cne. discoroute. router. sigdev
this Image!

 

(TSHSIHREL) Happy Friday my esteemed and valued Intelligence Community colleagues! There has
been a topic of conversation that has started to rumble beneath the surface of the Cyber-scene
lately. it's about router hacking(for this post. I'm not talking about your home ADSL router. I'm
talking about bigger routers. such as CiscoleuniperslHuaweis used by ISPs for their
infrastructure). Hacking routers has been good business for us and our S-eyes partners for some
time now. but it is becoming more apparent that other nation states are honing their skillz and
joining the scene. Before I get into it too much. let's go over some of the things that someone
could do if they hack a router:

* You could add credentials. allowing yourself to log in any time you choose

* You could addlchange routing rules

* You could set up a packet capture capability..imagine running Wireshark on an ISP's
infrastructure router...like a local listening post for any credentials being passed over the wire(!)

* You could weaken any VPN encryption capabilities on the router. forcing it to create easily
decryptable tunnels

* You could install a dorked version of the Operating System with whatever functionality you want
pre-built in

(TSHSIHREL) There are a plethora of things you could do once you get CNE access to a
router...suffice it to say. getting access to a router is very good for the actor. and very bad for
the victim. 50. we would obviously LOVE to know which countrieslactors have access to what other
routers (especially if it's our routers). Then the question comes down to:

"How would you identify the fact that someone has CNE access to a router?"

(TSHSIHREL) There are a handful of ways that you can tell if anyone has access to your router.
Like. if you are free to log into your own router. you could frequently log in. run diagnostic
commands. pull the IDS (or. more generically. the operating system file). hash that file. and
compare that to a list of known-good hashes. But. how would you find out if someone has CNE
access to a router that you don't own? How would you identify it if the Chinese had access to a
router in Zimbabwe? If all you have is passive network traffic that we've collected in SIGINT. how
would you do it?

The rest of this post relates to NSA's methods to detect when countries hack routers. We
have redacted it to prevent helping those countries improve their ability to hack foreign
routers and spy on people undetected.

