DoD 5240. I -R, December I 982

C15.3.1.3. Inspectors General, as part of their oversight responsibilities, shall,
as appropriate, ascertain whether any organizations, staffs, or offices within their
respective jurisdictions, but not otherwise speciﬁcally identiﬁed as DoD intelligence
components, are being used for foreign intelligence or counterintelligence purposes to
which Part 2 of ED. 12333 (reference (a)), applies, and, if so, shall ensure the
activities of such components are in compliance with this Regulation and applicable -
DoD policy.

C15.3.1.4. Inspectors General, as part of their inspection of DoD intelligence
components, shall ensure that procedures exist within such components for the
reporting of questionable activities, and that employees of such components are aware
of their responsibilities to report such activities.

C1 5.3 .2. Investigation

C 15.3.2.1. Each report of a questionable activity shall be investigated to the
extent necessary to determine the facts and assess whether the activity is legal and is
consistent with applicable policy.

C 15.3.2.2. When appropriate, questionable activities reported to a General
Counsel shall be referred to the corresponding Inspector General for investigation, and
if reported to an Inspector General, shall be referred to the corresponding General
Counsel to determine whether the activity is legal and consistent with applicable
policy. Reports made to the DoD General Counsel or the ATSD(IO) may be referred,
after consultation between these officials, to the appropriate Inspector General and
General Counsel for investigation and evaluation.

C 15.3.2.3. Investigations shall be conducted expeditiously. The ofﬁcials
responsible for these investigations may, in accordance with established procedures,
obtain assistance from within the component concerned, or from other DoD
Components, when necessary, to complete such investigations in a timely manner.

C-15.3.2.4. To complete such investigations, General Counsels and Inspectors
General shall have access to all relevant information regardless of classiﬁcation or
compartmentation.

C15.3.3. Reports

C 15.3.3.1. Each General Counsel and Inspector General shall report
immediately to the General Counsel, DoD, and the ATSD(IO) questionable activities of
a serious nature. -

63 CHAPTER 15

