W/—

Policy 1—23 Dated: 11 March 2004

(U) This Policy 1—23 supersedes Directive 10—30, dated 20 September 1990, and Change One
thereto, dated June 1998. The Associate Director for Policy endorsed an administrative update,
effective 27 December 2007 to make minor adjustments to the policy. This 29 May 2009
administrative update includes changes due to the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 and in core
training requirements.

(U) OPI: Ofﬁce of General Counsel (OGC), 963-3 l2ls

(U) No section of this document, regardless of classiﬁcation, shall be released without approval
from the Ofﬁce of Policy and Records, DJPl.

(U) POLICY

1. (U) NSA/CSS shall collect, process, retain, and disseminate information about US.
persons only as prescribed in DoD Directive 5240.1 (Reference a), DoD Regulation 5240.1-R
(Reference 6), orders issued by the Foreign intelligence Surveillance Court pursuant to reference
b, and the Classiﬁed Annex to DoD Procedures under Executive Order 12333 (hereafter referred
to as the Classiﬁed Annex; Reference f).

(U) PROCEDURES

2. (U) Signals Intelligence. The signals intelligence (SI GINT) mission of the NSA/CSS
is to collect, process, analyze, produce, and disseminate SIGINT information and data for foreign
intelligence and counterintelligence purposes to support national and departmental missions.
NSA/CSS shall intentionally collect only foreign communications. NSA/CSS shall not
intentionally collect US. person communications without proper legal authorization. The
Director, NSA/Chief, CSS (DIRNSA/CHCSS) may authorize exceptions only pursuant to the
procedures contained in DoD Regulation 5240.1—R (Reference e) and the Classiﬁed Annex
thereto (Reference f).

a. (U) Electronic surveillance, as deﬁned in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Act of 1978, as amended (Reference b), requires a court order issued by a judge
appointed pursuant to the Act or a certiﬁcation of the Attorney General of the United
States and the Director of National Intelligence issued pursuant to Section 105(b) of the
Act. The DIRNSA/CHCSS or Deputy Director, NSA (D/DIR) must approve applications
for a court order, which must be submitted through the DoD General Counsel to the
Attorney General. The DIRNSA/CHCSS or D/DIR may contact the Attorney General in
an emergency and the Attorney General may approve the surveillance pending
subsequent court proceedings.

b. (U) Electronic surveillance, as deﬁned in Appendix A to DoD Regulation
5240.1-R (Reference e), directed against US. persons who are outside the US. requires
an order by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act Court. In emergency situations
(e.g., U.S. hostages overseas), as described in Procedure 5, Part 2., of Reference 6, the
DIRNSA/CHCSS, D/DIR or Senior Operations Ofﬁcer at the National Security
Operations Center may authorize electronic surveillance, after consulting with the Ofﬁce

2 .
SECRET/momm—

