SECRET/lCOMINT/
Policy 1—23 Dated: 11 March 2004

of General Counsel (OGC). The Attorney General shall be notiﬁed promptly of any such
surveillance.

3. (U) Information Assurance. National Security Directive (NSD) 42 (Reference g) and
Executive Order 12333 (Reference c) designated DIRNSA as the National Manager for National
Security Systems (e. g. NSA’s Information Assurance (IA) mission) as that term is deﬁned by 44
US. C. 3542(b)(2) (Reference h). In that capacity, and pursuant to those authorities as well as
other applicable laws and policies, DIRNSA’s responsibilities include examining national
security systems and evaluating their vulnerability to foreign interception and exploitation. NSA,
as an element of the Intelligence Community and pursuant to section 26(0) of Executive Order
12333, as amended, may provide specialized equipment, technical knowledge, or assistance of
expert personnel for use by any US. Government department or agency having a national
security system or a non—national security system. The Executive Order directs that provision of
assistance by expert personnel shall be approved in each case by the general counsel of the
providing element or department. The Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002
(Reference i) and implementing procedures agreed to by NSA/CSS and the National Institute of
Standards and Technology also authorizes NSA/CSS to provide IA support for US government
non-national security systems.

a. (U) Any IA activities undertaken by NSA/CSS, including those involving
monitoring of ofﬁcial communications, shall be conducted in strict compliance with law,
Executive Order and implementing procedures, and applicable Presidential directive.
Any monitoring undertaken for communications security purposes ("COMSEC
monitoring") shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National
Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Directive (NTISSD) No. 600
(Reference j) or other special procedures approved by the Attorney General.

b. (U) In addition to the responsibility to conduct COMSEC monitoring and to
examine national security systems for vulnerabilities to foreign exploitation, NSD 42
(Reference g) also requires NSA/CSS to disseminate information on threats to national
security systems, regardless of the source of the threat. Title II of the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 (Reference k) imposes similar requirements with respect to the protection of
the United States’ critical infrastructure.

0. (U) Pursuant to NSA/CSS Policy 1—2, “(U) Mission and Functions Statements
with Service Level Agreements,” (Reference 1) and IAD’s Mission and Functions
Statement (Reference m), IAD performs all functions on behalf of the DIRNSA in
fulﬁlling his role as National Manager for National Security Systems. Accordingly, the
Information Assurance Director acts for DIRNSA/CHCSS in the issuance of written
approval to Conduct the information assurance activities assigned to NSA/CSS, including
the conduct of activities that may result in the collection of US. person information as
deﬁned in DoD Regulation 5240.1—R (Reference e) and other applicable guidance.

W—

