SECRET//COMINT/
Policy 1-23 Dated: 11 March 2004

(U) RESPONSIBILITIES
4. (U) The NSA General Counsel (GC) and Inspector General (1G) shall:

a. (U) Conduct appropriate oversight to identify and prevent violations of
Executive Order (E.O.) 12333, DOD Directive 5240.1 (References 0 and a), this Policy,
and any laws, orders, directives and regulations; and

b. (U) Forward to the Intelligence Oversight Board (10B) of the President’s
Intelligence Advisory Board (PIAB), through the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense
for Intelligence OVersight (ATSD(IO)), reports of activities that they have reason to
believe may be unlawful or contrary to Executive Order or Presidential Directive, and
other questionable intelligence activities or signiﬁcant or highly sensitive matters, as well
as provide other reports or information that the IOB or ATSD(IO) requires.

5. (U) The NSA Inspector General shall:

a. (U) Conduct regular inspections of NSA/CSS activities for compliance with
the law, executive orders, and related directives;

b. Perform general oversight of the SIGINT activities of the -
or compliance with E0. 12333 (Reference c) and related laws and
directives; '

c. (U) Establish reporting procedures to be followed by the Directors, Associate
Directors and Principal Directors, Chiefs of NSA/CSS Field Activities, and NSA/CSS

Representatives regarding their activities and practices;

d. (U) Consult with the NSA General Counsel on matters involving
interpretation or possible Violations of law, executive orders, or directives;

e. (U) Submit, semiannually, a comprehensive report to the DIRNSA/CHCSS
and D/DIR on the results of the IG's oversight activities; and

f. (U) Report, as required by E.O. 12333, BC. 12863 (References 0 and d) and
other authorities, to the ATSD(IO) and the ICE.

6. (U) The NSA General Counsel shall:

a. (U) Provide legal advice and assistance to all NSA/CSS elements regarding
the activities covered by this Policy;

b. (U) Assist NSA/CSS activities as requested in developing such guidelines and
working aids as are necessary to ensure compliance with this Policy;

4

