SECRET/ICOMINTI—

Policy 1—23 ' Dated: 11 March 2004

c. (U) Assist the NSA Inspector General in inspections and oversight of
NSA/CSS activities, as required;

d. (U) Review and assess for legal implications, as requested by any NSA
organization, all new major requirements and internally generated NSA/CSS activities;

e. (U) Advise appropriate NSA organizations of new legislation and case law
which may have an impact on NSA/CSS missions, functions, operations, activities, or
practices;

f. (U) Prepare and forward through DoD to the Attorney General any proposed
changes to existing procedures or new procedures required by ED. 12333 (Reference c)
or FISA, as amended (Reference b);

g. (U) In conjunction with the OIG, report as required by ED. 12333 and E0.
12863 (References c and d) to the ATSD(IO) and the PIOB, and provide copies of such
reports to DIRNSA/CHCSS and affected NSA/CSS elements;

h. (U) Prepare and process applications for authority to conduct electronic
surveillance pursuant to law, Executive Order and policy; and

i. (U) Process requests from any DoD intelligence component, including
NSA/CSS, for authority to use signals as described in Procedure 5, Part 5, of DoD
Regulation 5240.1—R (Reference e), for periods in excess of 90 days in the development,
test, or calibration of electronic equipment that can intercept communications and other
electronic surveillance equipment. Forward processed requests to the Attorney General
for approval when required.

7. (U) The Directors, Associate Directors, the NSA/CSS Chief of Staff, and Extended
Enterprise Commanders/Chiefs shall:

a. (U) Appoint an intelligence oversight coordinator or senior level official to
oversee intelligence oversight within each major element;

b. (U) Provide training to all employees (including contractors and integrees),
except contractor personnel excluded from core training requirements, in order to
maintain a high degree of sensitivity to, and understanding of, the laws and authorities
referenced in this Policy. Such training shall include both core and advanced intelligence
oversight training and refresher training with appropriate testing. All employees, except
contractor personnel excluded from core training requirements, shall receive core
training, and those with exposure to U.S. person information shall receive appropriate
advanced training. Training shall be required at least annually (or more often
commensurate with the level of exposure to US. person information by the employee).
Newly hired employees and reassignees, including contractor personnel not excluded
from core training requirements and integrees, must be trained upon assignment.

5
SECRET/ICOMINTI—

