W/
Policy 1-23 Dated: 11 March 2004

Managers shall keep records of training for all employees. The training must cover: E.O.
12333 (Reference 0); Procedures 1-4, 14 and 15 of DoD Regulation 5240.1-R (Reference
e); other Procedures of the Regulation that apply to the assigned mission; and this Policy.
Employees involved in the SIGINT process must be familiar with US. Signals
Intelligence Directive SP0018 (USSID SP0018) (Reference n), and employees involved
in COMSEC monitoring must be familiar with NTIS SD 600 (Reference j).

c. (U) Apply the provisions of this Policy to all activities under their cognizance
and ensure that all publications (U.S. Signals Intelligence Directives, National COMSEC
Instructions, NSA/CSS Management and Administrative Publications, etc.) and
instructions for which they are responsible are in compliance with this Policy;

(1. (U) Conduct a periodic review of the activities and practices conducted in or
under the cognizance of their respective organizations to ensure consistency with the laws
and authorities listed in the References section of this Policy;

e. (U) Ensure that all new major requirements levied on NSA/CSS and the US.
Cryptologic System or internally generated NSA/CSS activities are considered for review
and approval by the General Counsel. All activities that may raise a question of law or
regulation must be reviewed by the General Counsel prior to acceptance or execution;

f. (U) Ensure that necessary special security clearances and access authorizations
are provided to the General Counsel and Inspector General to enable them to meet their
assigned responsibilities;

g. (U) Report as required and otherwise assist the Inspector General and General
Counsel in carrying out their responsibilities, to include providing input to the Inspector
General for preparing the joint Inspector General/General Counsel/Director, NSA/ CSS
quarterly report to the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense (Intelligence Oversight) and
the IOB; and

h. (U) Develop, in coordination with the General Counsel and Inspector General
as required, such speciﬁc guidelines and working aids as are necessary to ensure
compliance with this PoliCy. These guidelines and working aids should be available to
employees at all times and must be reviewed by management with employees at least
annually.

(U) REFERENCES
8. (U) References:

a. (U) DoD Directive 5240.01, “DoD Intelligence Activities,” dated August 27,
2007.

6
SECIRETNCOMINW—

