mom/comm—

(U) ANNEX

(U) CLASSIFIED ANNEX TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
PROCEDURES UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER 12333

Sec. 1: Applicability and Scope (U)

'(Sﬁ‘S'HThese procedures implement sections 2.3, 2.4, and 2.6 (c) of Executive Order
12333 and supplement Procedure 5 of DOD Regulation 5240.1-R, previously approved by the
Secretary of Defense and the Attorney General. They govern the conduct -by the United States
Signals Intelligence System of signals intelligence activities that involve the collection, retention
and dissemination of communications originated or intended for receipt in the United States, and
signals intelligence activities that are directed intentionally against the communications of a
United States person who is outside the United States. These procedures also govern the
collection, retention and dissemination of information concerning United States persons that is
collectpd by thﬂrﬂaﬁ‘ﬁtﬁign—als Intelligence System including such activities undertaken
by the—1 hese procedures do n_ot apply to signals intelligence
activities that are not required under Executive Order 12333 to be conducted pursuant to
procedures approved by the Attorney General. Further, these procedures do not apply to signals
intelligence activities directed against the radio communications of air and sea vessels for the -
purpose of collecting foreign intelligence regarding international narcotics trafﬁcking or in
support of federal law enforcement efforts to interdict such trafﬁcking. Such signals intelligence
activities are subject to a separate classiﬁed annex approved earlier by the Attorney General (See
Annex J to United States Signals Intelligence Directive 18). Except for matters expressly
authorized herein, the limitations contained in Department of Defense Regulation 5240.1—R also
apply to the United States Signals Intelligence System. Reference should be made to those
procedures with respect to matters of applicability and scope, deﬁnitions, policy and operational
procedures not covered herein.

Sec. 2: Deﬁnitions (U)

(U) The following additional deﬁnitions or supplements to deﬁnitions in DoD RegulatiOn
5240.1-R apply solely to this Classiﬁed Annex:

$874519- Agent of a Foreign Power. For purposes of signals intelligence activities which
are not regulated by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), the term "agent
of a foreign power" means:

(a) a person who, for or on behalf of a foreign power, is engaged in clandestine
intelligence activities, sabotage, or international terrorist activities, or activities in
preparation for international terrorist activities, or who conspires with, or knowingly _

Annex to Policy 1-23
A—l
Derived From: NSA/CSSM 1-52
Dated: 20070108
Declassify On: 202-9-142-3-

SECRET//COMINT/

