SECRET//COMINT/—

aids and abets such a person engaging in such activities;
(b) a person who is an ofﬁcer or employee of a foreign power;

(c) a person unlawfully acting for, or pursuant to the direction of, a foreign power.
The mere fact that a person's activities may beneﬁt or further the aims of a foreign power
is not enough to bring that person under this subsection, absent evidence that the person
is taking direction from, or acting in knowing concert 'with, the foreign power;

(d) a person in contact with or acting in collaboration with an intelligence or
security service of a foreign power for the purpose of providing access to information or
material classiﬁed by the United States to which such person has or has had access; or

(e) a corporation or other entity that is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
by a foreign power.

(U) Communicant. The term' ‘communicant" means a sender or intended recipient of a
communication.

(U) Consent. For the purposes of signals intelligence activities, an agreement by an
organization with the National Security Agency to permit collection of information shall be
deemed valid consent if given on behalf of such organization by an ofﬁcial or governing body
determined by the General Counsel, National Security Agency, to have actual or apparent
authority to make such an agreement.

'6876‘89- Foreign Communication. The term "foreign communication" means a
communication that involves a sender or an intended recipient who 1s outside the United States
or that 1s entirely among foreign powers or between a foreign power and ofﬁcials of a foreign
power. Electronic surveillance within the United States targeted against communications
entirely among foreign powers or between a foreign power and ofﬁcials of a foreign power will
be coordinated with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, including surveillances targeted against
telephone communications or telecommunications that serve residential or non-ofﬁcial premises
of a foreign power or foreign ofﬁcials within the United States. This coordination is intended to
satisfy the National Security Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation intelligence
requirements, preclude duplication of effort, and ensure that appropriate minimization practices
are developed and applied.

(U) Foreign Intelligence. The term "foreign intelligence" includes both positive foreign
intelligence and counterintelligence.

-(G9-lllicit Communication. The term "illicit communication" means a communication

transmitted in violation of the Communications Act of 1934 and regulations thereunder or of
international agreements which because of its explicit content, message characteristics, or

Annex to Policy 1—23
Dated: 11 March 2004

A—2
SECRET/momm—

