SECRET//COMINT/—

method of transmission is reasonably believed to be a communication to or from an agent or
agents of foreign powers, whether or not United States persons.

(U) Interception. The term "interception" means the acquisition by the United States
Signals Intelligence System through electronic means of a nonpublic communication to which it
is not an intended party, and the processing of the contents of that communication into an
intelligence form but not including the display of signals on Visual display devices intended to
permit the examination of the technical characteristics of the signal Without reference to the
information content carried by the signal.

—é€9—International Commercial Communications. The term "international commercial
Communications" means foreign communications transmitted internationally in whole or in part
by one or more commercial or forei overnment communications carriers, and includes, but is
not limited to, ﬁ International commercial communications may be
wire, telephone or radio communications transmitted by high frequency, microwave, satellite or
other mode of transmission.

+9-National Diplomatic Communications. The term "national diplomatic
communications" includes all communications, regardless of the mode of transmission,
transmitted by or to a foreign power and to which no United States person is a communicant.
The official communications of an international organization composed of foreign governments
are included in the meaning of this term, provided, however that the communications of official
representatives of the United States are not included.

fa-Selection. The term "selection," as applied to manual and mechanical processing
activities, means the intentional insertion of a name, cable, TELEX, or other address and answer
back or other alpha—numeric device into a computer scan dictionary or manual scan guide for the
purpose of identifying messages of interest and isolating them for further processing.

—éG9-Selection Term. The term "selection term" means the composite of individual terms
used to effect or defeat selection of particular communications for the purpose of interception. It
comprises the entire term or series of terms so used, but not any segregable term contained
herein. It applies to both mechanical and manual processing.

(U) Technical Data Base. The term "technical data base" means information retained
for cryptanalytic or trafﬁc analytic purposes.

 

—éG9-United States Person. For purposes of intentionally collecting the communications
of a particular person, the term "United States person,” in addition to the meaning in the
Appendix to DoD Regulation 5240.1-R, includes any alien known to be presently in the United
States; any unincorporated association of such aliens or American citizens; the United States
Annex to Policy 1-23
Dated: ll March 2004
A-3

