SECRET//COMINT/—

operations, office, branch, or representative of a corporation incorporated abroad; any
corporation or corporate subsidiary incorporated in the United States; and any US. ﬂag non—
governmental aircraft or vessel: Provided however, that the term "US. person" shall not include
(i) non—permanent resident aliens and entities in the United States that have diplomatic immunity
as determined in accordance with Subsection 4.B; or (ii) a foreign power or powers as defined in
Section 101 (a)(l)-(3) of FISA.

 

Sec. 3: Policy (U)

(U) The Director, National Security Agency, is assigned responsibility for signals
intelligence collection and processing activities and communications security activities. In order
to assure that these activities are conducted in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order
12333, the Director, or his designee, will issue appropriate directives and instructions
implementing these procedures and governing the conduct of the United States Signals
Intelligence System and the activities of communications security entities.

‘CGHt is the policy of the United States Signals Intelligence System to collect, retain, and
disseminate foreign communications and military tactical communications. It is recognized,
however, that the United States Signals Intelligence System may incidentally intercept non~
foreign communications, including those of or concerning United States persons, in the course of
authorized collection of foreign communications. The United States Signals Intelligence System
makes every reasonable effort, through surveys and technical means, to reduce to the maximum
extent possible the number of such incidental intercepts acquired in the conduct of its operations.
Information derived from these incidentally intercepted non—foreign communications may be
disseminated to the Federal Bureau of Investigation when the information is foreign intelligence
or counterintelligence or indicates a threat to the physical safety of any person. Dissemination
of such information is also governed by these procedures and applicable minimization
procedures approved in accordance with FISA. Speciﬁc communications sent from or intended
for receipt by the United States persons are not intercepted deliberately by the United States
Signals Intelligence System unless specific authorization for such interception has been obtained
in accordance with these procedures.

$7489- The President has authorized, and the Attorney General hereby specifically
approves, interception by the United States Signals Intelligence System of:

* National Diplomatic Communications;
* International Commercial Communications;
' * Illicit Communications;
* United States and Allied Military exercise communications;

Annex to Policy 1-23
Dated: 11 March 2004

A-4
SECRET//C0MINT/—

