 

SECRETHCOMINT/I—

(4) with speciﬁc prior approval by the Attorney General based on a ﬁnding by
the Attorney General that there is probable cause to believe the United States person is an agent
of a foreign power and that the purpose of the interception or selection is to collect signiﬁcant
foreign intelligence. Such approvals shall be limited to a period of time not to exceed ninety
days for individuals and one year for entities.

  
  
 
 
    

 
 

(b)'(Sﬁ‘SI) Communications of, or concerning ( 1)|
fa foreign power, or powers, as deﬁned in Section 101 (a) (.1) - (3) of

'1ay be intercepted intentionally, or
selected deliberately (through the use of a selection term or otherwise), upon certiﬁcation in
writing by the Director, NSA to the Attorney General. Such certiﬁcation shall take the form of
the Certiﬁcation Notice appended hereto. An information copy shall be forwarded to the Deputy
Secretary of Defense. Collection may commence upon the Director, NSA's certiﬁcation. In
addition, the Director, NSA shall advise the Attorney General and the Deputy Secretary of
Defense On an annual basis of all such collection.

(0) éG)-For purposes of the application of Parts 1,2 and 3 of Procedure 5 (and
subsection 4. A. l (a) of this annex) to the activities of the United States Signals Intelligence
System, any deliberate interception, selection or use of a selection term shall be deemed to
constitute electronic surveillance; and "signiﬁcant foreign intelligence" shall mean not only those
items of information that are in themselves signiﬁcant, but also items that are reasonably
believed, based on the experience of the United States Signals Intelligence System, when
analyzed together with other items, to make a contribution to the discovery of "signiﬁcant
foreign intelligence." ,

((1) (874849- Emergencies:

(l) The emergency provision in Section D of Part 2, Procedure 5, of DoD
5240.1-R, may be employed to authorize deliberate selection of communications of, or
concerning, a United States persons deﬁned in the Appendix to DoD Regulation 5240.1-R, when
that person is outside the United States.

(2) If the United States Signals Intelligence System is intentionally collecting
the communications of or concerning a non-resident alien abroad who enters the United States in
circumstances that suggest that the alien is an agent of a foreign power, collection of the
communications of that alien may continue for a period not to exceed seventy-two hours after it
is learned that the alien 1s in the United States while the United States Signals Intelligence
system seek utinue the surveillance £10m the Attorne General ursuant to these

    

Annex to Policy 1-23
Dated: 11 March 2004

A-6
SECRET/momm—

