SECRET/m 0mm—
— Communications acquired after the target is

known to be in the United States, and that are not solely of, or concerning, U.S. citizens or
permanent resident aliens, may be disseminated for foreign intelligence purposes until such time
as diplomatic status is established or Attorney General approval is obtained. In those instances
in which the diplomatic status of the alien is established, or Attorney General approval for
continued surveillance is obtained, communications of, or concerning, the alien may be
disseminated in accordance with subsection 4.A.4 of these procedures.

(3) If the United States Signals Intelligence System is intentionally collecting
communications of, or concerning, a United States citizen or permanent resident alien abroad, it
must terminate the surveillance promptly upon learning that person is in the United States.
Electronic surveillance may be reinstituted only in accordance with FISA. In the event
communications of, or concerning, the target continue to be collected before termination can be
effected, processing and use of information derived from such communications shall be
restricted to the greatest extent possible and special care shall be taken to ensure that such
information is not disseminated for any purpose unless authorized in accordance with the
provisions of FISA.

(e) fS#Sl)--Communications transmitted on With a
terminal in the United States that services a U.S. person may e targete or interception upon

certiﬁcation in writing by the Director, NSA to the Attorney General that the target of the
collection is a foreign entity and that the purpose of the collection is to obtain foreign
intelligence. The certiﬁcation shall take the form of the Certiﬁcation Notice appended hereto.
Collection may commence upon the Director, NSA's certiﬁcation. In addition,_the Director, NSA
will advise the Attorney General on an annual basis of all such collection.
The Deputy Secretary of Defense will be provided information copies of all certiﬁcations sent to
the Attorney General. -

 

(f) fS-A‘S-B-Provided the proposed monitoring is not otherwise regulated by Section
4.A.l (a)—(e), voice and facsimile communications with one communicant in the United States
may be targeted for intercept only with the prior approval of the Attorney General or the
Director, National Security Agency, as set forth below, unless those communications occur over
channels used exclusively by a foreign power. The Director, National Security Agency, may
annrovghﬁargeting of such communications if technical devices

are employed that limit acquisition by the National Security Agency_to

:ommunications where the target is a non—U.S. person located outside the United States

Ior_to_sr)_e_cif1_c_forms of
communications used by those targets,'

communications. In those cases in wh1cli'it is not possible to use such technical dev1ces, the
Attorney General must approve the targeting._ Approvals granted by the Director, NSA under
this 'provision shall be available for review by the Attorney General. -

    
 

   

(g) (GM my be intercepted in accordance with Section
3 of this Annex.

Annex to Policy 1—23
Dated: ll March 2004

A—7
SECRET/ICOMINTM—

