SECRET//COMINT/—

communications, unless there is reasonable cause to believe that foreign intelligence or
counterintelligence will be obtained by use of such a selection term.

(b) All such selection‘terms shall be reviewed annually by the Deputy
Director for Operations, National Security Agency, or his designee to determine whether there is
reasonable cause to believe that foreign intelligence or counterintelligence will be obtained by
the use of these selection terms. The review of such selection terms shall include an examination
of whether such selection terms have in the past resulted in the acquisition of foreign
intelligence.

(0) Selection terms based on content that have resulted or that are
reasonably likely to result in the interception of communications to or from a United States
person shall be designed to defeat, to the eXtent practicable under the circumstances, the
interception of such communications not containing foreign intelligence.

(2) Foreign communications collected by the United States Signals
Intelligence System or other authorized entities may be forwarded to the National Security
Agency as intercepted. This applies to forwarding to intermediate processing facilities, including
those of authorized collaborating centers pursuant to written agreements, provided such
forwarding does not result in the production by the United States Signals Intelligence System of
information in violation of these procedures.

(b) fSﬁ‘S-B-Except as provided in (b)(l), radio communications that pass over
channels with a terminal within the United States must be processed by use of selection terms,
unless these communications occur over channels used exclusively by a foreign power.

(1) Radio communications that pass over channels with a terminal in the
United States may be processed without the use of selection terms only when necessary to
determine whether a channel contains communications of foreign intelligence interest which the
National Security Agency wishes to collect. Processing under this section may not exceed two
hours without approval of the Deputy Director for Operations, National Security Agency, and
shall in any event be limited to the minimum amount of time necessary to determine the nature
of communications on the channel and the amount of such communications that include foreign
intelligence. Once it is determined that the channel contains a sufficient amount of
communications of foreign intelligence interest to warrant collection and exploitation to produce
foreign intelligence, additional processing of the channel must utilize selection terms.

4. Dissemination (U)

166%!) Dissemination of signals intelligence derived from foreign communications of, or
concerning, United States persons is governed by Procedure 4 of DoD Regulation 5240.1—R.
Dissemination of signals intelligence shall be limited to authorized signals intelligence
consumers in accordance with requirements and tasking established pursuant to Executive Order
12333. Dissemination of information that is not pursuant to such requirements or tasking that

Annex to Policy 1—23
Dated: 11 March 2004

A—9
SECRET/www—

