SECRET/momm—

(i) the interception of the United States person's communications was authorized by a
court order issued pursuant to Section 105 of F ISA or by Attorney General approval issued
pursuant to Section 4.A.l of this annex and the communication may relate to the foreign
intelligence or counterintelligence purpose of the surveillance;

(j) the communication or information indicates a possible threat to the safety of a
person or organization, including those who are targets, victims, or hostages of international
terrorist organizations;

(k) the communication or information indicates that the United States person may be
engaged in international narcotics trafficking activities;

(1) the communication or information is evidence that a crime has been, is being, or is
about to be committed, provided that dissemination is for law enforcement purposes; or

(m) the identity of the United States person is otherwise necessary to understand
foreign intelligence or counterintelligence or assess its importance. Access to technical data
bases will be restricted to signals intelligence collection and analytic personnel. Requests for
access from other personnel or entities shall be referred to the Deputy Director for Operations,
National Security Agency. Domestic communications in which all communicants are United
States persons shall be disposed of upon recognition, provided that technical data concerning
frequency and channel usage may be retained for collection avoidance purposes.

B.-6G9- Signals Intelligence: Communications of, or Concerning, Aliens and Entities-
The United States Signals Intelligence System may intentionally intercept

the international communications of non— ermanent resident aliens and entities in the United
States *

   
   
 

 
 

C. fey-Signals Intelligence: Illicit Communications. The United States Signals
Intelligence System may collect, retain, process, and disseminate illicit communications without
reference to the requirements concerning United States persons.

D.-69-Signals Intelligence: Search and Development. The United States Signals
Intelligence System may conduct search and development activities with respect to signals
throughout the radio spectrum under the following limitations:

1. Collection. Signals may be collected only for the purpose of identifying those
signals that:

(a) may contain information related to the production of foreign intelligence or
counterintelligence;
Annex to Policy 1-23
Dated: ll MarCh 2004

A-l 1 ’
SECRET/m «MINT/—

