SECRET/www—

(b) are enciphered or appear to contain secret meaning;

(0) are necessary to ensure efficient signals intelligence collection or to avoid the
collection of unwanted signals; or

(d) reveal vulnerability of United States communications security.

2. Retention and Processing. Communications originating or intended for receipt in
the United States, or originated or intended for receipt by United States persons, shall be
processed in accordance with Section 4.A.3, provided that information necessary for cataloging
the constituent elements of the signal environment may be produced and retained if such
information does not identify a United States person. Information revealing a United States
communications security vulnerability may be retained. '

3. Dissemination. Information necessary for cataloging the constituent elements of
the signal environment may be disseminated to the extent such information does not identify
United States persons, except that communication equipment nomenclature may be '
disseminated. Information that reveals a vulnerability of United States communications security
may be dissemination to the appropriate security authorities.

E. WForeign Electronic Surveillance Activities. The United States Signals
Intelligence System may collect information related to the conduct of electronic surveillance
activities by foreign powers conducted Within the United States against communications
originated or intended for receipt in the United States. Collection efforts must be reasonably
designed to intercept, or otherwise obtain only the results of such foreign surveillance efforts,
and to avoid, to the extent feasible, the intercept of other communications. Such activities shall
be conducted pursuant to orders of the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.

F. (U) Assistance to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

1. In accordance with the provisions of Section 2.6 (c) of E0. 12333, the National
Security Agency may provide specialized equipment and technical knowledge to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation to assist the Bureau in the conduct of its lawﬁJl functions. When
requesting such assistance, The Federal Bureau of Investigation shall certify to the General
Counsel, National Security Agency, that such equipment or technical knowledge is necessary to
accomplishment of one or more of the Bureau's lawful functions.

2. The National Security Agency may also provide expert personnel to assist Bureau
personnel in the operation or installation of specialized equipment when that equipment is to be
employed to collect foreign intelligence or counterintelligence. When requesting the assistance
of expert personnel the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall certify to the General Counsel,
National Security Agency, that such assistance is necessary to collect foreign intelligence or

Annex to Policy 1—23
Dated: 11 March 2004

A-12
SECRET/momm—

