DTM 08—052, June 1 7, 2009

ATTACHMENT 2

PROCEDURES FOR REPORTING OUESTIONABLE INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
AND SIGNIFICANT OR HIGHLY SENSITIVE MATTERS

1. REPORTING PARAMETERS

 

a. The DoD Components shall report the following matters to the ATSD(IO) in
accordance with References (a) and (d).

(l) Ouestionable Intelligence Activitv. An intelligence activity, as deﬁned
_ in ED. 12333 (Reference (f)), that may be unlawful or contrary to executive order,
Presidential directive, or applicable DoD policy governing that activity.

(2) Signiﬁcant or Highlv Sensitive Matters. A development or
circumstance involving an intelligence activity or intelligence personnel that could
impugn the reputation or integrity of the DoD Intelligence Community or otherwise call
into question the propriety of an intelligence activity. Such matters might be manifested
in or by an activity: I

(a) Involving congressional inquiries or investigations.
(b) That may result in adverse media coverage.
(c) That may impact on foreign relations or foreign partners.

(d) Related to the unauthorized disclosure of classiﬁed or protected
information, such as information identifying a sensitive source and method. Reporting
under this paragraph does not include reporting of routine security violations.

(3) Crimes Reported to the Attornev General. Any intelligence activity
that has been or will be reported to the Attorney General, or that must be reported to the
Attorney General as required by law or other directive, including crimes reported to the
Attorney General as required by Department of Justice-DoD Memorandum of
Understanding (Reference (g)).

b. Unless extenuating circumstances exist, the ATSD(IO) will be notiﬁed prior to
brieﬁngs of any congressional committee or member of Congress concerning intelligence
matters identiﬁed in paragraphs l.a.(l), l.a.(2), and l.a.(3) of this attachment. Should
extenuating circumstances, in fact, delay notiﬁcation to the ATSD(IO) until after the
brieﬁng, then the ATSD(IO) will be notiﬁed of the outcome of the brieﬁng at the ﬁrst
opportunity thereafter.

4 Attachment 2

