DTM 08—052, June 17, 2009

c. The DoD Component assigned to or conducting intelligence activities-may
establish internal organizational reporting responsibilities pursuant to that Component’s
internal policies and regulations.

2. SUBMISSION OF REPORTS. DoD Components assigned to conduct intelligence
and counterintelligence activities shall submit reports to the ATSD(IO) in accordance
with the following guidance.

a. Report questionable intelligence activities of a serious nature and all signiﬁcant
or highly sensitive matters immediately. Such reports may be made by any secure means.
Oral reportslshould be documented with a written report as soon as possible thereafter.

b. Report questionable intelligence activities not of a serious nature quarterly.
Reporting periods shall be based on the calendar year. The ﬁrst report for each calendar
year shall cover January 1 through March 31. Succeeding reports shall follow at 3-month
intervals. Quarterly reports are due to the ATSD(IO) by the 15th day of the month
following the end of the quarter. Quarterly reports will describe all questionable
intelligence activities as well as signiﬁcant or highly sensitive matters identiﬁed during
the quarter. Quarterly reports are routinely submitted to the AT SD(IO) through normal
modes of routing and transmission (e.g., chain of command, hard or soft copy).

Quarterly reports are required even if no reportable matters occurred during the reporting
period.

c. Reporting DoD Components will format all reports as follows:

(1) Assignment of a Case Number for Each Incident. Except where the
volume of incident investigations that have been reported and closed within the same
reporting quarter makes the assigning of a case number to each case impracticable, a case
number that runs consecutively and identiﬁes the reported incident by reporting agency,
Military Department, or Combatant Command and calendar year shall be assigned to
each incident. For example: “DIA 2009 - 04” would indicate the fourth incident reported
by DIA in calendar year 2009. Use this number each time the incident is mentioned in
initial reports, and in update and close-out reports. A case number will be assigned to all
reported incidents that, at a minimum, are the subject of an ongoing investigation.

(2) Information to be Included in Each Report. For each incident reported,
include the following informatiOn as it becomes available.

(a) A narrative describing each incident reported. '

5 Attachment 2

