DT M 08-052, June I 7, 2009

(b) An explanation of why the incident is being reported either as a
potential violation of law, potentially contrary to executive order or Presidential directive,
or a potential violation of Reference (b) and/ or agency or Military Department procedures
implementing Reference (f). Cite the portions of relevant law, order, policy, or
regulation as it is determined.

(c) An explanation of why the incident is considered a signiﬁcant or
highly sensitive matter, if so reported.

((1) An analysis of how or why the incident occurred.

(e) An assessment of the anticipated impact of the reported incident
on national security or international relations, as well as any mitigation efforts, including
success and failures of such efforts. If there has been no impact or no impact is
anticipated, the report should so state.

(f) Remedial action taken or planned to prevent recurrence of the
incident.

(g) An assessment of any impact the reported incident may have on
civil liberties or protected privacy rights.

(h) A description of actions taken if the incident concerns
information improperly acquired, handled, used, or destroyed.

(i) Any additional information considered relevant for purposes of
fully informing the Secretary and/or Deputy Secretary of Defense, the 1013, and the DN1
and providing context about the incident.

(1. Each quarterly report should be organized under the major headings of “New
Incidents” and “Updates on Previously Reported Incidents.” The latter heading includes
incidents still under inquiry as well as those resolved and closed during the quarter.

e. Additionally, each quarterly report will contain a summary of gravity,
frequency, trends and patterns of the questionable intelligence activities, and/or
signiﬁcant or highly sensitive incidents reported during that quarter, to the extent that
they can be determined Otherwise, the summary should be provided, as the information
becomes available, in a subsequent quarterly report.

f. The quarterly report shall include a description of any inspection ﬁndings or
intelligence oversight program developments, such as publication of a revised
intelligence oversight regulation, that the reporting DoD Component believes is
signiﬁcant. Neither training reports nor inspection schedules shall be included in the

6 Attachment 2

