DoD 524 0. I -R, December 1982

DL1. DEFINITIONS

DL1.1.1. Administrative Purposes. Information is collected for "administrative
purposes"when it is necessary for the administration of the component concerned, but
is not collected directly in performance of the intelligence activities assigned such
component. Examples include information relating to the past performance of
potential contractors; information to enable such components to discharge their public
affairs and legislative duties, including the maintenance of correspondence ﬁles; the
maintenance of employee personnel and training records; and training materials or
documents produced at training facilities.

DLl .l .2. Available Publicly. Information that has been published or broadcast for
general public consumption, is available on request to a member of the general public,
could lawfully be seen or heard by any casual observer, or is made available at a meeting
open to the general public. In this context, the "general public"also means general .
availability to persons in a military community even though the military community is
not opento the civilian general public.

DL1.1.3. Communications Security. Protective measures taken to deny
unauthorized persons information derived from telecommunications of the US.
Government related to national security and to ensure the authenticity of such
telecommunications.

DL1.1 .4. Consent. The agreement by aperson or organization to permit DoD
intelligence components to take particular actions that affect the person or
organization. Consent may be oral or written unless a speciﬁc form of consent is
required by aparticular procedure. Consent may be implied if adequate notice is
provided that a particular action (such as entering a building) carries with it the .
presumption of consent to an accompanying action (such as search of briefcases).
(Questions regarding what is adequate notice in particular circumstances should be
referred to the legal office responsible for advising the DoD intelligence component
concerned.) -

DLl .l .5. Counterintelligence. Information gathered and activities conducted to
protect against espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations
conducted for or on behalf of foreign powers, organizations, or persons, or international
terrorist activities, but not including personnel, physical, document, or communications
security programs. '

7 DEFINITIONS

