DoD 5240. I -R, December I 982

DL1.1.8.15. The 650th Military Intelligence Group, SHAPE.

DL1.1.8.16. Other organizations, staffs, and offices, when used for foreign
intelligence or counterintelligence activities to which part 2 of E0. 12333 (reference
(a)), applies, provided that the heads of such organizations, staffs, and offices shall not
be considered as heads of DoD intelligence components for purposes of this
Regulation.

DL1.1 .9. Electronic Surveillance. Acquisition of anonpublic communication by
electronic means without the consent of aperson who is aparty to an electronic
communication or, in the case of a non-electronic communication, without the consent
of a person who is visibly present at the place of communication, but not including the
use of radio direction ﬁnding equipment solely to determine the location of a
transmitter. (Electronic surveillance within the United States is subject to the
deﬁnitions in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (reference (b)).)

DL1.1 .10. Employee. Aperson employed by, assigned to, or acting for an agency
within the intelligence community, including contractors and persons otherwise acting at
the direction of such an agency. '

DL1.1 .11. Foreign Intelligence. Information relating to the capabilities, intentions,
and activities of foreign powers, organizations, or persons, but not including
counterintelligence except for information on international terrorist activities.

DL1.1.12. Foreign Power. Any foreign government (regardless of whether
recognized by the United States), foreign-based political party (or faCtion thereof),
foreign military force, foreign-based terrorist group, or any organization composed, in
major part, of any such entity or entities.

DL1.1.13. Intelligence Activities. Refers to all activities that DoD intelligence
components are authorized to undertake pursuant to Executive Order 12333 (reference

(a))-

DL1.1 .14. Intelligence Community and an Agencv of Or Within the Intelligence
Communitv. Refers to the following organizations:

DL1.1.14.1. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
DL1.1. 14.2. The National SeCurity Agency (NSA).

DL1.1.14.3. The Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA).

9 . DEFINITIONS

