DoD 5240.1-R, December 1982

D-L1.1.14.4. The Offices within the Department of Defense for the collection
of specialized national foreign intelligence through reconnaissance programs.

DL1.1.14.5. The Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department of
State.

DL1.1.14.6. The intelligence elements of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force
and the Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Department of the
Treasury, and the Department of Energy.

DL1.1.14.7. The staff elements of the Office of the Director of Central
Intelligence.

DL1.1 . 15. International Narcotics Activities. Refers to activities outside the
United States to produce, transfer or sell narcotics or other substances controlled in
accordance with Sections 811 and 812 of title 21, United States Code.

DL1.1.16. International Terrorist Activities. Activities undertaken by or in support
of terrorists or terrorist organizations that occur totally outside the United States, or
that transcend national boundaries in terms of the means by which they are
accomplished, the persons they appear intended to coerce or intimidate, or the locale in
which the perpetrators operate or seek asylum.

DL1.1.17. Lawful Investigation. An investigation qualiﬁes as a lawful investigation
if the subject of the investigation is within DoD investigative jurisdiction; if it is
conducted by a DoD Component that has authorization to conduct the particular type of
investigation concerned (for example, counterintelligence, personnel security, physical
security, communications security); and if the investigation is conducted in accordance
with applicable law and policy, including ED. 123 3 3 and this Regulation.

DL1.1 . 18. Personnel Security. Measures designed to insure that persons
employed, or being considered for employment, in sensitive positions of trust are
suitable for such employment with respect to loyalty, character, emotional stability, and
reliability and that such employment is clearly consistent with the interests of the
national security. It includes measures designed to ensure that persons granted access
to classiﬁedinformation remain'suitable for such access and that access is consistent
with the interests of national security.

DL1.1.19. Personnel Securitv Investigation:

1 0 DEFINITIONS

