D0D 5240.1-R, December 1982

DLl.l.l9.l. Aninquiry into the activities of aperson granted access to
intelligence or other classiﬁed information; or aperson who is being considered for
access to intelligence or other classiﬁed information, including persons who are
granted or may be granted access to facilities of DoD intelligence components; or a
person to be assigned or retained in a position with sensitive duties.emsp; The
investigation is designed to develop information pertaining to the suitability, eligibility,
and trustworthiness of the individual with respect to loyalty, character, emotional
stability and reliability.

DLl.l.l9.2. Inquiries and other activities directed against DoD employees or
members of aMilitary Service to determine the facts of possible voluntary or
involuntary compromise of classiﬁed information by them.

DLl.l.l9.3. The collection of information about or from military personnel in
the course of tactical training exercises for security training purposes.

DLl.l .20. Physical Security. The physical measures taken to prevent unauthorized
access to, and prevent the damage or loss of, equipment, facilities, materiel and
documents; and measures undertaken to protect DoD personnel from physical threats to
their safety.

DLl.l .21. Physical Security Investigation. All inquiries, inspections, or surveys
of the effectiveness of controls and procedures designed to provide physical security;
and all inquiries and other actions undertaken to obtain information pertaining to
physical threats to DoD personnel or property.

DLl.l .22. Reasonable Belief. Areasonable belief arises when the facts and
circumstances are such that a reasonable person would hold the belief. Reasonable
belief must rest on facts and circumstances that can be articulated; "hunches"or _
intuitions are not sufﬁcient. Reasonable belief can be based on experience, training,
and knowledge in foreign intelligence or counterintelligence work applied to facts and
circumstances at hand, so that a trained and experienced "reasonable person" might hold a
reasonable belief sufﬁcient to satisfy this criterion when someone unfamiliar with
foreign intelligence or counterintelligence work might not.

DLl.l .23. S_ignals Intelligence. Acategory of intelligence including
communications intelligence, electronic intelligence, and foreign instrumentation
signals intelligence, either individually or in combination.

DLl.l .24. United States. When used to describe aplace, the term shall include
the territories under the sovereignty of the United States.

11 DEFINITIONS

