DoD 5240.1-R, December 1982

C1. C_HAN'E_RI
PROCEDURE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS

Cl . l. APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE

Cl.l.l. These procedures apply only to "DOD intelligence components," as deﬁned
in the Deﬁnitions Section. Procedures 2 through 4 provide the sole authority by which
such components may collect, retain and disseminate information concerning United
States persons. Procedures 5 through 10 set forth applicable guidance with respect to
the use of certain collection techniques to obtain information for foreign intelligence
and counterintelligence purposes. Authority to employ such techniques shall be limited
to that necessary to perform functions assigned the DoD intelligence component
concerned. Procedures 11 through 15 govern other aspects of DoD intelligence
activities, including the oversight of such activities.

Cl.l.2. The functions of DoD intelligence components not specifically addressed'
herein shall be carried out in accordance with applicable policy and procedure.

Cl.l.3. These procedures do not apply to law enforcement activities, including
civil disturbance activities, that may be undertaken by DoD intelligence components.
When an investigation or inquiry undertaken pursuant to these procedures establishes
reasonable belief that a crime has been committed, the DoD intelligence component
concerned shall refer the matter to the appropriate law enforcement agency in
accordance with procedures 12 and 15 or, if the DoD intelligence component is
otherwise authorized to conduct law enforcement activities, shall continue such
investigation under appropriate law enforcement procedures.

Cl.l.4. DoD intelligence components shall not request any person or entity to
undertake any activity forbidden by Executive Order 12333 (reference (a)).
Cl .2. PURPOSE

The purpose of these procedures is to enable DoD intelligence. components to carry out
effectively their authorized functions while ensuring their activities that affect U.S.
persons are carried out in a manner that protects the constitutional rights and privacy of
such persons. I

13 CHAPTER 1

