DoD 5240.1 —R, December 1982

C23. TYPES OF INFORMATION THATMAYBE COLLECTED ABOUT UNITED
STATES PERSONS

Information that identifies a United States person may be collected by a DoD
intelligence component only if it is necessary to the conduct of a function assigned the
collecting component, and only if it falls within one of the following categories:

C2.3.l . Information Obtained With Consent. Information may be collected about a
United States person who consents to such collection.

C2.3.2. Publicly Available Information. Information may be collected about a
United States person if it is publicly available.

C2.3.3. Foreign Intelligence. Subject to the special limitation contained in section
C2.5., below, information may be collected about a United States person if the
information constitutes foreign intelligence, provided the intentional collection of
foreign intelligence about United States persons shall be limited to persons who are:

C2.3.3.l. Individuals reasonably believed to be officers or employees, or
otherwise acting for or on behalf, of a foreign power;

C2.3.3.2. An organization reasonably believed to be owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by a foreign power;

C2.3.3.3. Persons or organizations reasonably believed to be engaged or about
to engage, in international terrorist or international narcotics activities;

C2.3.3.4. Persons who are reasonably believed to be prisoners of war; missing
in action; or are the targets, the hostages, or victims of international terrorist
organizations; or

C2.3.3.5. Corporations or other commercial organizations believed to have
some relationship with foreign powers, organizations, or persons.

C2.3.4. Counterintelligence. Information may be collected about a United States
person if the information constitutes counterintelligence, provided the intentional
collection of cOunterintelligence about United States persons must be limited to:

C2.3.4.l. Persons who are reasonably believed to be engaged in, or about to
engage in, intelligence activities on behalf of a foreign power, or international terrorist
activities.

16 CHAPTER 2

