DoD 5240.1-R, December 1982

C2.3.4.2. Persons in contact with persons described in subparagraph C2.3.4.1.,
above, for the purpose of identifying such person and assessing their relationship with
persons described in subparagraph C2.3.4.1., above. '

C2.3.5. Potential Sources of Assistance to Intelligence Activities. Information
may be collected about United States persons reasonably believed to be potential
sources of intelligence, or potential sources of assistance to intelligence activities, for
the purpose of assessing their suitability or credibility. This category does not include
investigations undertaken for personnel security purposes.

C2.3.6. Protection of Intelligence Sources and Methods. Information may be
collected about a United States person who has access to, had access to, or is otherwise
in possession of, information that reveals foreign intelligence and counterintelligence
sources or methods, when collection is reasonably believed necessary to protect against
the unauthorized disclosure of such information; provided that within the United States,

_ intentional collection of such information shall be limited to persons who are:

C2.3.6.1. Present and former DoD employees;

C2.3.6.2. Present or former employees of apresent or former DoD
contractor; and

C2.3.6.3. Applicants for employment at the Department of Defense or at a
contractor of the Department of Defense. '

C2.3.7. P_hysical Security. Information may be collected about a United States
person who is reasonably believed to threaten the physical security of 'DoD employees,
installations, operations, or ofﬁcial visitors. Information may also be collected in the
course of a lawful physical security investigation. I

C2.3.8. Personnel Security. Information may be collected about a-United States
person that arises out of a lawful personnel security investigation.

C2.3.9. Communications Security. Information may be collected about aUnited
States person that arises out of a lawful communications security investigation.

C2.3.10. Narcotics. Information may be collected about a United States person
who is reasonably believed to be engaged in international narcotics activities.

C2.3.1 1. Threats to Safety. Information may be collected about aUnited States
person when the information is needed to protect the safety of any person or

17 CHAPTER 2

