DoD 5240 I-R, December 1982

organization, including those who are targets, victims, or hostages of international
terrorist organizations.

C2.3.12. Overhead Reconnaissance. information may be collected from overhead
reconnaissance not directed at speciﬁc United States persons.

C231 3. Administrative Purposes. Information may be collected about a United
States person that is necessary for administrative purposes.

C2.4. GENERAL CRITERIA GOVERNING THE MEANS USED TO COLLECT
INFORMATION ABOUT UNITED STATES PERSONS

C2.4.1. Means of Collection. DoD intelligence components are authorized to
collect information about United States persons by any lawful means, provided that all
such collection activities shall be carried out in accordance with E0. 12333 (reference
(a)), and this Regulation, as appropriate.

C2.4.2. Least Intrusive Means. The collection of information about United States
persons shall be accomplished by the least intrusive means. In general, this means the
following:

C2.4.2.l. To the extent feasible, such information shall be collected from
publicly available information or with the consent of the person concerned;

C2.4.2.2. If collection from these sources is not feasible or sufﬁcient, such
information may be collected from cooperating sources;

C2.4.2.3. If collection from cooperating sources is not feasible or sufﬁcient,
such information may be collected, as appropriate, using other lawful investigative
techniques that do not require a judicial warrant or the approval of the Attorney
General; then

C2.4.2.4. If collection through use of these techniques is not feasible or
sufﬁcient, approval for use of investigative techniques that do require a judicial warrant
or the approval of the Attorney General may be sought.

C2.5. SPECIAL LIMITATION ON THE COLLECTION OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

 

Within the United States, foreign intelligence concerning United States persons may be
collected only by overt means unless all the following conditions are met:

18 I CHAPTER 2

