DoD 52401.12, December 1982

CS. QH_AWE_R5
PROCEDURE 5. ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

C5.1. PART. 1: ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE IN THE UNITED STATES FOR
IN | ELLIGENCE PURPOSES

C5.1.1 . Applicability. This part of Procedure 5 implements the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1979 (reference (b)), and applies to electronic
surveillance, as deﬁned in that Act, conducted by DOD intelligence components within
the United States to collect "foreign intelligence information," as deﬁned in that Act.

C5 . 1 .2. General Rules

C5.1.2.1. Electronic Surveillance Pursuant to the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act. ADoD intelligence component may conduct electronic surveillance

within the United States for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence purposes only
pursuant to an order issued by a judge of the court appointed pursuant to the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (reference (b)), or pursuant to a certiﬁcation of
the Attorney General issued under the authority of Section 102(a) of the Act.

C5.1.2.2. Authority to Request Electronic Surveillance. Authority to approve

the submission of applications or requests for electronic surveillance under the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (reference (b)) shall be limited to the Secretary

. of Defense, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Secretary or Under Secretary of a
Military Department, and the Director of the National Security Agency. Applications
for court orders will be made through the Attorney General after prior clearance by the
General Counsel, DoD. Requests for Attorney General certiﬁcation shall be made only
after prior clearance by the General Counsel, DoD.

C5.1.2.3. Electronic Surveillance In Emergencv Situations

C5.1.2.3.1. ADoD intelligence component may conduct electronic
surveillance Within the United States in emergency situations under an approval from the
Attorney General in accordance with Section 105(e) of reference (b).

C5.1.2.3.2. The head of a DoD intelligence component may request that
the DoD General Counsel seek such authority directly from the Attorney General in an
emergency, if it is not feasible to submit such request through an ofﬁcial designated in
subparagraph C5.1.2.2., above, provided the appropriate ofﬁcial concerned shall be
advised of such requests as soon as possible thereafter.

24 CHAPTER 3

