DoD 5240. I -R, December I 982

C52. PART 2: ELECTRONIC SIRVEILLAN CE OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES FOR
INTELLIGENCE PURPO SES

C5.2.l. Applicability. This part of Procedure 5 applies to electronic surveillance,
as deﬁned in the Deﬁnitions Section, for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence
'purposes directed against United States persons who are outside the United States, and
who, under the circumstances, have a reasonable expectation of privacy. It is intended
to be applied in conjunction with the regulation of electronic surveillance "within the
United States“under Part 1 and the regulation of "signals intelligence activities"under
Part 3 so that the intentional interception for foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence purposes of all wire or radio communications of persons within the
United States and against United States persons abroad where such persons enjoy a
reasonable expectation of privacy is covered by one of the three parts. In addition, this
part governs the use of electronic, mechanical, or other surveillance devices for foreign
intelligence and counterintelligence purposes against a United States person abroad in
circumstances where such person has a reasonable expectation of privacy. This part
does not apply to the electronic surveillance of communications of other than United
States pers'ons abroad or the interception of the communications of United States
persons abroad that do not constitute electronic surveillance.

C5.2.2. Explanation of Undeﬁned Terms

C5.2.2. 1. Electronic surveillance is "directed against a United States person"
when the surveillance is intentionally targeted against or designed to intercept the
communications of that person. Electronic surveillance directed against persons who
are not United States persons that results in the incidental acquisition of the
communications of aUnited States person does not thereby become electronic
surveillance directed against a United States person.

C5 2.2.2. Electronic surveillance is "outside the United States"if the person _
against whom the electronic surveillance is directed is physically outside the United
States, regardless of the location at which surveillance is conducted. For example, the
interception of communications that originate and terminate outside the United States
can be conducted from within the United States and still fall under this part rather than
Part 1.

C5.2.3. Procedures. Except as provided in paragraph C5.2.5., below, DoD
intelligence components may conduct electronic surveillance against aUnited States
person who is outside the United States for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence
purposes only if the surveillance is approved by the Attorney General. Requests for

25 CHAPTER 5

