DoD 5240.1—R, December 1982

approval will be forwarded to the Attorney General by an ofﬁcial designated in
subparagraph C5.2.5.l., below. Each request shall include:

C5.2.3.l. An identiﬁcation or description of the target.
C5.2.3.2. Astatement of the facts supporting a ﬁnding that:

C5.2.3.2.l. There 13 probable cause to believe the target of the electronic
surveillance ls one of the following:

C5.2.3.2.l.l. Aperson who, for or on behalf of a foreign power is
engaged in clandestine intelligence activities (including covert activities intended to
affect the political or governmental process), sabotage, or international terrorist
activities, or activities in preparation for international terrorist activities; or who
conspires with, or knowingly aids and abets a person engaging in such activities;

C5.2.3.2.l.2. Aperson who is an officer or employee of a foreign
power;

C5.2.3.2. l .3. Aperson unlawfully acting for, or pursuant to the
direction of, a foreign power. The mere fact that a person's activities may beneﬁt or
further the aims of a foreign power is not enough to bring that person under this
paragraph, absent evidence that the person is taking direction from, or acting in knowing
concert with, the foreign power; -

C5.2.3.2.l.4. Acorporation or other entity that 1s owned or
controlled directly or indirectly by a foreign power; or

C5.2.3.2.l.5. Aperson in contact with, or acting in collaboration with,
an intelligence or security service of a foreign power for the purpose of providing
access to information or material classiﬁed by the United States to which such person
has access.

C5.2.3.2.2. The electronic surveillance is necessary to obtain signiﬁcant
foreign intelligence or counterintelligence.

C5.2.3.2.3. The_signiﬁcant foreign intelligence or counterintelligence
expected to be obtained from the electronic surveillance could not reasonably be
obtained by other less intrusive collection techniques.

C5.2.3.3. Adescription of the signiﬁcant foreign intelligence or
counterintelligence expected to be obtained from the electronic surveillance.

26 CHAPTER 3

