DoD 5240.1-R, December 1982

C5.2.3.4. Adescription of the means by which the electronic surveillance will
be effected.

C5.2.3.5. If physical trespass is required to effect the surveillance, a
statement of facts supporting a ﬁnding that the means involve the least amount of
intrusion that will accomplish the objective.

C5.2.3.6. Astatement of period of time, not to exceed 90 days, for which the
electronic surveillance is required.

C5.2.3.7. Adescription of the expected dissemination of the product of< the
surveillance, including a description of the procedures that will govern the retention and
dissemination of communications of or concerning United States persons other than
those targeted, acquired incidental to such surveillance.

C5.2.4. Electronic Surveillance in Emergencv Situations. Notwithstanding
paragraph C5.2.3., above, a DoD intelligence component may conduct surveillance
directed at aUnited States person who is outside the United States in emergency
situations under the following limitations:

C5.2.4. l. Ofﬁcials designated in paragraph C5.2.5., below, may authorize
electronic surveillance directed at aUnited States person outside the United States in
emergency situations, when securing the prior approval of the Attorney General is not
practical because:

C5.2.4.l.l. The time required would cause failure or delay in obtaining
signiﬁcant foreign intelligence or counterintelligence and such failure or delay would
result in substantial harm to the national security;

C5.2.4.l.2. Aperson's life or physical safety is reasonably believed to be
in immediate danger; or

C5.2.4. 1.3. The physical security of a defense installation or Government
property is reasonably believed to be in immediate danger.

C5.2.4.2. Except for actions taken under subparagraph C5.2.4.l.2., above, any
ofﬁcial authorizing such emergency surveillance shall ﬁnd that one of the criteria
contained in subparagraph C5.2.3.2.l., above, is met. Such officials shall notify the
DoD General Counsel promptly of any such surveillance, the reason for authorizing such _
surveillance on an emergency basis, and the expected results.

27 CHAPTER 5

