DOD 5240. I -R, December I 982

retention, and dissemination of foreign communications and military tactical
communications. Such activities may incidentally involve the collection of information
concerning United-States persons without their consent, or may involve communications
originated or intended for receipt in the United States, without the consent of a party
thereto.

C5.3. l .2. This part of Procedure 5 shall be supplemented by a classiﬁed
Annex promulgated by the Director, National Security Agency/Chief, Central Security
Service, which shall also be approved by the Attorney General. That regulation shall
provide that signals intelligence activities that constitute electronic surveillance, as
deﬁned in Parts 1, and 2 of this procedure, will be authorized in accordance with those
parts. Any information collected incidentally about United States persons shall be
subjected to minimization procedures approved by the Attorney General.

C5.3.2. Explanation of Undeﬁned Terms

C5.3.2.l. Communications concerning aUnited States person are those in
which the United States person is identiﬁed in the communication. AUnited States

person is identiﬁed when the person's name, unique title, address or other personal
identiﬁer is revealed in the communication in the context of activities conducted by that
person or activities conducted by others and related to that person. Areference to a
product by brand name or manufacturer's name or the use of a name in a descriptive
sense, as, for example, "Monroe Doctrine," is not an identiﬁcation of aUnited States
person.

C5.3.2.2. Interception means the acquisition by the United States Signals
Intelligence system through electronic means of anonpublic communication to which it
is not an intended party, and the processing of the contents of' that communication into

_ an intelligible form, but not including the display of signals on visual display devices
intended to permit the examination of the technical characteristics of the signals
without reference to the information content carried by the signals.

C5.3.2.3. Military tactical communications means United States and allied
military exercise communications within the United States and abroad necessary for the
production of simulated foreign intelligence and counterintelligence or to permit an
analysis of communications security.

C5.3.2.4. United States Person. For purposes of signals intelligence
activities only, the following guidelines will apply in determining whether aperson is a
United States person:

29 ' CHAPTER 3

