DoD 5240. I -R, December I 982

C5.3.2.4.l. Aperson known to be currently in the United States will be
treated as a United States person unless the nature of the person's communications or
other available information concerning the person gives rise to a reasonable belief that
such person is not a United States citizen or permanent resident alien. I

C5.3.2.4.2. Aperson known to be currently outside the United States, or
whose location is not known, will not be treated as a United States person unless the
nature of the person's communications or other available information concerning the
person give rise to areasonable belief that such person is aUnited States citizen or
permanent resident alien.

C5.3.2.4.3. Aperson known to be an alien admitted for permanent
residence may be assumed to have lost status as aUnited States person if the person
leaves the United States and it is known that the person is not in compliance with the
administrative formalities provided by law that enable such persons to reenter the United
States without regard to the provisions of law that would otherwise restrict an alien's
entry into the United States. The failure to follow the statutory procedures provides a
reasonable basis to conclude that such alien has abandoned any intention of maintaining
status as a permanent resident alien. '

C5.3.2.4.4. An unincorporated association whose headquarters are located
outside the United States may be presumed not to be a United States person unless the
collecting agency has information indicating that a substantial number of members are
citizens of the United States or aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence.

C5.3.2.5. United States Signals Intelligence Svstem means the uniﬁed
organization for signals intelligence activities under the direction of the Director,
National Security Agency/Chief, Central Security Service, comprised of the National
Security Agency, the Central Security Service, the components of the Military Services
authorized to conduct signals intelligence and such other entities (other than the Federal
Bureau of Investigation) as are authorized by the National Security Council or the
Secretary of Defense to conduct signals intelligence. FBI activities are governed by
procedures promulgated by the Attorney General.

C5.3.3. Procedures

C5.3.3. 1. Foreign Communications. The United States Signals Intelligence
System may collect, process, retain, and disseminate foreign communications that are
also communications of or concerning United States persons, but only in accordance
with the classiﬁed annex to this procedure. '

30 CHAPTER 5

