DOD 5240.1-R, December 1982

C5.3.3.2. Military Tactical Communications. The United States Signals
Intelligence System may collect, process, retain, and disseminate military tactical
communications that are also communications of or concerning United States persons
- but only in accordance with the classiﬁed annex to this procedure.

C5.3.3.2.l. Collection. Collection efforts will be conducted in the same
manner as in the case of signals intelligence for foreign intelligence purposes and must
be designed in such a manner as to avoid to the extent feasible the intercept of
communications not related to military exercises.

C5.3.3.2.2. Retention and Processing. Military tactical communications
may be retained and processed without deletion of references to United States persons
who are participants in, or are otherwise mentioned in exercise-related communications,
provided that the communications of United States persons not participating in the
exercise that are inadvertently intercepted during the exercise shall be destroyed as
soon as feasible.

C5.3.3.2.3. Dissemination. Dissemination of military tactical _
communications and exercise reports or information files derived from such
communications shall be limited to those authorities and persons participating in or
conducting reviews and critiques of such exercise.

C5.4. PART 4: TECHNICAL SURVEILLANCE COUNTERMEASURES

C5.4.1. Applicability and Scope. This part of Procedure 5 applies to the use of
electronic equipment to determine the existence and capability of electronic
surveillance equipment'being used by persons not authorized to conduct electronic
surveillance. It implements Section 105(f)(2) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Act (reference (b)).

C5.4.2. Explanation of Undeﬁned Terms. The term technical surveillance
countermeasures refers to activities authorized pursuant to DoD Directive 5200.29
(reference (c)), and, as used in this procedure, refers to the use of electronic
surveillance equipment, or electronic or mechanical devices, solely for determining the
existence and capability of electronic surveillance equipment being used by persons not
authorized to conduct electronic surveillance, or for determining the susceptibility of
electronic equipment to unlawful electronic surveillance.

3 1 CHAPTER 3

