DaD 524 0, I —R, December I 982

C5.4.3. Procedures ADoD intelligence component may use technical surveillance
countermeasures that involve the incidental acquisition of the nonpublic
communications of United States persons without their consent, provided:

C5.4.3.1. The use of such countermeasures has been authorized or consented
to by the ofﬁcial in charge of the facility, organization, or installation where the
countermeasures are to be undertaken;

C5.4.3.2. The use of such countermeasures is limited in that necessary to
determine the existence and capability of such equipment; and

C5.4.3.3. Access to the content of communications acquired during the use of
countermeasures is limited to persons involved directly in conducting such measures,
and any content acquired is destroyed as soon as practical or upon completion of the
particular use. However, if the content is acquired Within theUnited States, only
information that is necessary to protect against unauthorized electronic surveillance, or
to enforce Chapter 119 of title 18, United States Code (reference (d)) and Section 605
of the Communication Act of 1934 (reference (6)), may be retained and disseminated
only for these purposes. If acquired outside the United States, information that
indicates a violation of Federal law, including the Uniform Code of Military Justice
(reference (f)), or a clear and imminent threat to life or property, may also be
disseminated to appropriate law enforcement authorities. Arecord of the types of
communications and information subject to acquisition by the illegal electronic
surveillance equipment may be retained.

C5 .5. PART 5: DEVELOPING. TESTING. AND CALIBRATION OF ELECTRONIC
EQUIPMENT

 

C5.5.1. Applicability This part of Procedure 5 applies to developing, testing, or
calibrating electronic equipment that can intercept or process communications and
non-communications signals. 'It also includes research and development that needs
electronic communications as a signal source.

C5.5.2. Procedures
C5 .52. 1. Signals Authorized for Use
C552. 1 . 1. The following may be used without restriction:

C5.5.2.1.1.1. Laboratory-generated signals.

32 CHAPTER 3

