DoD 5240.1 —R, December H982

I C5 .7. PART 7: CONDUCT OF VULNERABILITY AND HEARABILITY SURVEYS

C5.7.1 . Applicability and Scope This part of Procedure 5 applies to the conduct
of vulnerability surveys and hearability surveys by DoD intelligence components.

C5.7.2. Explanation of Undeﬁned Terms

C5.7.2.1. The term vulnerabilitv survey refers to the acquisition of radio
frequency propagation and its subsequent analysis to determine empirically the
vulnerability of the transmission media to interception by foreign intelligence services.

C5.7.2.2. The term hearability survev refers to monitoring radio
communications to determine whether a particular radio signal can be received at one
or more locations and, if reception is possible, to determine the hearability of reception
over time.

C5.7.3. Procedures

C5.7.3.1. Conduct of Vulnerabilitv Survevs. Nonconsensual surveys may be
conducted to determine the potential vulnerability to intelligence services of a foreign
power of transmission facilities of communications common carriers, other private
commercial entities, and entities of the federal government, subject of the following
limitations :

C5.7.3.1.1. No vulnerability survey may be conducted without the prior
written approval of the Director, National Security Agency, or his designee.

C5.7.3.1.2. No transmission may be acquired aurally.
C5.7.3.1.3. No content of any transmission may be acquired by any means.
C5.7.3.1.4. No transmissions may be recorded.

C5.7.3.1.5. No report or log may identify any United States person or
entity except to the extent of identifying transmission facilities that are vulnerable to
surveillance by foreign powers. If the identities of the users of such facilities are not
identical with the identities of the owners of the facilities, the identity of such users
may be obtained but not from the content of the transmissions themselves, and may be
included in such report or log. Reports may be disseminated. Logs may be
disseminated only if required to verify results contained in reports.

36 CHAPTER 5

