DoD 5240.1-R, December 1982

C6. CHAPTER 6
PROCEDURE 6. CONCEALED MONITORING

C6. 1. APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE

C6.1.l . This procedure applies to concealed monitoring only for foreign
intelligence and counterintelligence purposes conducted by a DoD intelligence
component within the United States or directed against aUnited States person who is
outside the United States where the subject of such monitoring does not have a.
reasonable expectation of privacy, as explained in section 6.2., below, and no warrant
would be required if undertaken for law enforcement purposes.

C6.1.2. Concealed monitoring in the United States for foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence purposes where the subject of such monitoring has areasonable
expectation of privacy and a warrant would be required for law enforcement purposes
shall be treated as "electronic surveillance within the United'States"under Part 1 of
Procedure 5, and processed pursuant to that procedure. I

C6.1.3. Concealed monitoring for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence
purposes of aUnited States person abroad where the subject of such monitoring has a
reasonable expectation of privacy and a warrant would be required for law enforcement
purposes shall be treated as "electronic surveillance outside the United States"under
Part 2 of Procedure 5, and processed pursuant to that procedure.

C6.1.4. Concealed monitoring for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence
purposes when the monitoring is a signals intelligence activity shall be conducted
pursuant to Part 3 of Procedure 5.

C62. EXPLANATION OF UNDEFINED TERMS

C6.2.l . Concealed monitoring means targeting by electronic, optical, or
mechanical devices a particular person or a group of persons without their consent in a
surreptitious and continuous manner. Monitoring is surreptitious when it is targeted in
a manner designed to keep the subject of the monitoring unaware of it. Monitoring is
continuous if it is conducted without interruption for a substantial period of time.

C6.2.2. Monitoring is within the United States if the monitoring device, or the
target of the monitoring, is located within the United States.

38 CHAPTER 3

