I DoD 5240.142, December 1982

C6.2.3. Whether concealed monitoring is to occur where the subject has a_-
reasonable expectation of privacy is a determination that depends upon the
circumstances of a particular case, and shall be made only after consultation with the
legal office responsible for advising the DoD intelligence component concerned.
Reasonable expectation of privacy is the extent to which a reasonable person in the
particular circumstances involved is entitled to believe his or her actions are not
subject to monitoring by electronic, optical, or mechanical devices. For example, there
are ordinarily reasonable expectations of privacy in work spaces if aperson‘s actions
and papers are not subject to ready observation by others under normal working
conditions. Conversely, a person walking out of his or her residence into apublic
street ordinarily would not have a reasonable expectation that he or she is not being
observed or even photographed; however, such a person ordinarily would have an
expectation of privacy within his or her residence. '

C6.3. PROCEDURES

C6.3.l. Limitations On Use of Concealed Monitoring. Use of concealed
monitoring under circumstances when the subject of such monitoring has no reasonable
expectation of privacy is subject to the following limitations:

C-6.3.l.l. Within the United States, a DoD intelligence component may
conduct concealed monitoring only on an installation or facility owned or leased by the
Department of Defense or otherwise in the course of an investigation conducted
pursuant to the Agreement Between the Secretary of Defense and the Attorney General
(reference (g)).

C6.3.l.2. Outside the United States, such monitoring may be conducted on
installations and facilities owned or leased by the Department of Defense. Monitoring
outside such facilities Ishall be conducted after coordination with appropriate host
country ofﬁcials, if such coordination is required by the governing Status of Forces
Agreement, and with the Central Intelligence Agency.

C63 .2. Required Determination. Concealed monitoring conducted under
paragraph C6.3.l ., requires approval by an ofﬁcial designated in paragraph C6.3.3 .,
below, based on a determination that such monitoring is necessary to the conduct of
assigned foreign intelligence or counterintelligence functions, and does not constitute
electronic surveillance under Parts 1 or 2 of Procedure 5.

C633. Ofﬁcials Authorized to Approve Concealed Monitoring. Ofﬁcials
authorized to approve concealed monitoring under this procedure include the Deputy

39 ' CHAPTER 3

