DoD 5240.1-R, December 1982

C7. CHAPTER 7
PROCEDURE 7. PHYSICAL SEARCHES

C7. 1. APPLICABILITY

This procedure applies to nonconsensual physical searches of any person or property
within the United States and to physical searches of the person or property of aUnited
States person outside the United States by DoD intelligence components for foreign
intelligence or counterintelligence purposes. DoD intelligence components may
provide assistance to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other law enforcement
authorities in accordance with Procedure 12.

 

C7.2. EXPLANATION OF UNDEFINED TERMS

thsical search means any intrusion upon a person or aperson's property or possessions
to obtain items of property or information. The term does not include examination of
areas that are in plain view and visible to the unaided eye if no physical trespass is
undertaken, and does not include examinations of abandoned property left in apublic
place. The term also does not include any intrusion authorized as necessary to
accomplish lawful electronic surveillance conducted pursuant to Parts_ 1 and2 of
Procedure 5.

C73. PROCEDURES

C7.3.1 . Nonconsensual thsical Searches Within the United States

C7.3.1.1. Searches of Active Duty Military Personnel for Counterintelligence
Purposes. The counterintelligence elements of the Military Departments are

authorized to conduct nonconsensual physical searches in the United States for
counterintelligence purposes of the person or property of active duty military
personnel, When authorized by a military commander empowered to approve physical
searches for law enforcement purposes pursuant to rule 315(d) of the Manual for
Courts Martial, Executive Order 12198 (reference (h)),' based upon a ﬁnding of
probable cause to believe such persons are acting as agents of foreign powers. For
purposes of this section, the term "agent of a foreign power"refers to an individual who
meets the criteria set forth in subparagraph C7.3.1.2., below.

41 CHAPTER I"

