DoD 5240.1-R, December 1982

C7.3.1.2. Other Nonconsensual thsical Searches. Except as permitted by '
section C7. 1 ., above, DOD intelligence components may not conduct nonconsensual
physical searches of persons and property within the United States for foreign
intelligence or counterintelligence purposes. DoD intelligence components may,
however, re quest the FBI to conduct such searches. All such requests, shall be in
writing; shall contain the information required in subparagraphs C7.3 .2.2. l ., through
C7.3.2.2.2.6., below; and be approved by an ofﬁcial designated in subparagraph
C7.3.2.2.2.3., below. Acopy of each such request shall be furnished the General
Counsel, DoD.

C7.3.2. Nonconsensual thsical Searches Outside the United States

C7.3.2.l. Searches of Active Dutv Militarv Personnel for Counterintelligence
Purposes. The counterintelligence elements of the Military Departments may conduct
nonconsensual physical searches of the person or property of active duty military
personnel outside the United States for counterintelligence purposes when authorized
by a military commander empowered to approve physical searches for law enforcement
purposes pursuant to rule 315(d) of the Manual for Courts Martial, Executive Order
12198 (reference (h)), based upon a ﬁnding of probable cause to believe such persons
are acting as agents of foreign powers. For purposes of this section, the term "agent of
a foreign power"refers to an individual who meets the criteria set forth in subparagraph
C7.3.2.2.2., below.

C7322. Other Nonconsensual thsical Searches. DoD intelligence
components may conduct other nonconsensual physical searches for foreign
intelligence and counterintelligence purposes of the person or property of United States
persons outside the UnitedStates only pursuant to the approval of the Attorney
General. Requests for such approval will be forwarded by a senior ofﬁcial designated
in subparagraph C7.3.2.3., below, to the Attorney General and shall include:

_ C7.3.2.2.l. An identiﬁcation of the person or description of the property
to be searched. '

C7.3.2.2.2. Astatement of facts supporting a finding that there is
probable cause to believe the subject of the search is:

42 CHAPTER F

