DoD 5240.1-R, December 1982

C7.3.2.2.2. 1. Aperson who, for or on behalf of a foreign power, is
engaged in clandestine intelligence activities (including covert activities intended to
affect the political or governmental process), sabotage, or international terrorist
activities, activities in preparation for international terrorist activities, or who conspires
with, or knowingly aids and abets a person engaging in such activities;

C7.3.2.2.2.2. Aperson who is an officer or employee of aforeign
power;

C7.3.2.2.2.3. Aperson unlawfully acting for, or pursuant to the
direction of, aforeign power. The mere fact that a person's activities may beneﬁt or
further the aims of a foreign power does not justify a nonconsensual physical search
without evidence that the person is taking direction from, or acting in knowing concert
with, the foreign power; '

C7L3.2.2.2.4. Acorporation or other entity that is owned or
controlled directly or indirectly by a foreign power; or

C7.3.2.2.2.5. Aperson in contact with, or acting in collaboration with,
an intelligence or security service of a foreign power for the purpose of providing
access to information or material classiﬁed by the United States to which such person
has access.

C7.3.2.2.3. Astatement of facts supporting a ﬁnding that the search is
necessary to obtain signiﬁcant foreign intelligence or counterintelligence.

C7.3.2.2.4. Astatement of facts supporting a ﬁnding that the significant '
foreign intelligence or counterintelligence expected to be obtained could not be
obtained by less intrusive means.

C7.3.2.2.5. Adescription of the signiﬁcant foreign intelligence or
counterintelligence expected to be obtained from the search.

C7.3.2.2.6. Adescription of the_ extent of the search and a statement of
facts supporting a ﬁnding that the search will involve the least amount of physical
intrusion that will accomplish the objective sought.

C7.3.2.2.7. Adescription of the expected dissemination of the product of
the search, including a description of the procedures that will govern the retention and
dissemination of information about United States persons acquired incidental to the
search. -

43 CHAPTER 7

