DoD 5240.1 -R, December 1982

C8.3. PROCEDURES
C8.3.l. Searches of Mail Within United States Postal Channels

C8.3.l.l. Applicable postal regulations do not permit DoD intelligence
components to detain or open first-class mail within United States postal channels for
foreign intelligence and counterintelligence purposes, or to request such action by the
US. Postal Service.

C8.3.l.2. DoD intelligence cOmponents maylrequest appropriate U.S. postal
authorities to inspect, or authorize the inspection, of the contents of second-, third-, or-
fourth-class mail in United States postal channels, for such purposes, in accordance with
applicable postal regulations. Such components may also request appropriate U.S.
postal authorities to detain, or permit the detention of, mail that may become subject to
search under this section, in accordance with applicable postal regulations.

C8.3.2. Searches of Mail Outside United States Postal Channels

C8.3.2.l. DoD intelligence components are authorized to open mail to or
from a United States person that is found outside United States postal channels only
pursuant to the approval of the Attorney General. Requests for such approval shall be
treated as a request for a nonconsensual physical search under subparagraph C7.3.2.2.,
of Procedure 7.

C8.3.2.2. Heads of DoD intelligence components may authorize the opening
of mail outside U. S. postal channels when both the sender and intended recipient are
other than United States persons if such searches are otherwise lawful and consistent
with any Status of Forces Agreement that may be 1n effect

C8.3 .3. Mail Covers

C8.3.3.l. DoD intelligence components may request U.S. postal authorities to
examine mail in US. postal channels, for counterintelligence purposes, in accordance
with applicable postal regulations.

C8.3.3.2. DoD intelligence components may also request mail covers with
respect to mail to or from aUnited States person that is outside US. postal channels, in

. accordance with appropriate law and procedure of the host government, and any Status of

Forces Agreement that may be effect.

46 CHAPTER 5

