DOD 5240. I —R, December I 982

C9._ CHAPTER 9
PROCEDURE 9. PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE

C9. 1. APPLICABILITY

This procedure applies only to the physical surveillance of United States persons by
BOB intelligence components for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence

purposes. This procedure does n_ot apply to physical surveillance conducted as part of a
training exercise when the subjects are participantsin the exercise.

C92. EXPLANATION OF UNDEFINED TERMS

The term physical surveillance means a systematic and deliberate observation of a
person by any means on a continuing basis, or the acquisition of a nonpublic
communication by a person not a party thereto or visibly present thereat through any
means not involving electronic surveillance.

C93. PROCEDURES

C9.3.l. Criteria for Physical Surveillance In the United States. Within the United
States, DoD Intelligence components may conduct nonconsensual physical surveillances
for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence purposes against United States persons
who are present or former employees of the intelligence component concerned;
present or former contractors of such components or their present or former
employees; applicants for such employment or contracting; or military persons
employed by a non-intelligence element of a Military Service. Any physical
surveillance within the United States that occurs outside a DoD installation shall be
coordinated with the FBI and other law enforcement agencies, as may be appropriate.

C9.3.2. Criteria for Physical Surveillance Outside the United States. Outside the
United States, DoD Intelligence components may conduct nonconsensual physical

surveillance of United States persons in one of the categories identiﬁed in paragraph
C9.3.l., above. In addition, such components may conduct physical surveillance of
other United States persons in the course of a lawful foreign intelligence or
counterintelligence investigation, provided:

C9.3.2.l. Such surveillance is consistent with the laws and policy of the host
government and does not violate any Status of Forces Agreement that may be in effect;

47 CHAPTER 9

