DoD 524 0. I -R, December 1982

CIO. CHAPTER 10
PROCEDURE lO. UNDISCLOSED PARTICIPATION IN ORGANIZATIONS

C l O. l . APPLICABILITY

This procedure applies to participation by employees of DoD intelligence components
in any organization within the United States, or any organization outside the United
States that constitutes a United States person, when such participation is on behalf of
any entity of the intelligence community. These procedures do not apply to
participation in organizations for solely personal purposes.

C l 0.2. EXPLANATION OF UNDEFINED TERMS

ClO.2. 1. Domestic activities refers to activities that take place within the United
. States that do not involve a signiﬁcant connection with a foreign power, organization or
person. ' '

ClO.2.2. The term organization includes corporations and other commercial
organizations, academic institutions, clubs, professional societies, associations, and any
other group Whose existence is formalized in some manner or otherwise functions on a
continuing basis.

ClO.2.3. An organization within the United States means all organizations
physically located within the geographical boundaries of the United States whether or
not they constitute aUnited States persons. Thus, abranch, subsidiary, or office of an _
organization Within the United States, which is physically located outside the United
States, is not considered as an organization within the United States.

ClO.2.4. Participation refers to any action undertaken within the structure or
framework of the organization involved. Such actions include serving as a
representative or agent of the organizatiOn; acquiring membership; attending meetings
not open to the public, including social functions for the organization as a whole;
carrying out the work or functions of the organization; and contributing funds to the
organization other than in payment for goods or services. Actions taken outside the
organizational framework, however, do not constitute participation. Thus, attendance at
meetings or social gatherings that involve organization members, but are not functions
or activities of the organization itself does not constitute participation.

49 CHAPTER 10

