DOD 5240.1 ~R, December 1982

C10.2.5. Participation is on behalf of an agency within the intelligence community
when an employee is tasked or requested to take action within an organization for the
beneﬁt of such agency. Such employee may already be a member of the organization or
may be asked to join. Actions undertaken for the beneﬁt of an intelligence agency
include collecting information, identifying potential sources or contacts, or establishing
and maintaining cove'r. If a cooperating source furnishes information to an intelligence
agency that he or she obtained by participation within an organization, but was not given
prior direction or tasking by the intelligence agency to collect such information, then
such participation was not on behalf of such agency.

C10.2.6. Participation is solely for personal purposes. if undertaken at the
initiative and expense of the employee for the employee's beneﬁt.

ClO.3. PROCEDURES FOR UNDISCLOSED PARTICIPATION

Except as permitted herein, employees of DoD intelligence components may participate
on behalf of such components in organizations within the United States, or in
organizations outside the United States that constitute United States persons, only if
their afﬁliation with the intelligence component concerned is disclosed to an
appropriate ofﬁcial of the organization in accordance With section ClO.4., below.
Participation without such disclosure is permitted only if it is consistent with the
limitations set forth in paragraph ClO.3.1., below, and has been approved in accordance
with paragraph C10.3.2., below.

C103. 1. Limitations On Undisclosed Participation

C 10.3.1.1. Lawful Purpose. No undisclosed participation shall be permitted
under this procedure unless it is essential to achieving a lawful foreign intelligence or
counterintelligence purpose within the assigned mission of the collecting DoD
intelligence component.

C10.3.1'.2. Limitations On Use of Undisclosed Participation for Foreign
Intelligence Pupposes Within the United States. Undisclosed participation may not be
authorized within the United States for the purpose of collecting foreign intelligence
from or about a United States person, nor to collect information necessary to assess
United States persons as potential sources of assistance to foreign intelligence
activities. This does not preclude the collection of information about such persons,
volunteered by cooperating sources participating in organizations to which such persons
belong, however, if otherwise permitted by Procedure 2.

50 CHAPTER 10

