DoD 5240.1—R, December 1982

C10.3.1.3. Duration of Participation. Authorization to participate under
subparagraphs C10.3.2.1., and C10.3.2.2., shall be limited to the period covered by such
participation, which shall be no longer than 12 months. Participation that lasts longer
than 12 months shall be re-approved by the appropriate ofﬁcial on an annual basis in
accordance with this procedure.

C 10.3.1.4. Participation for the Purpose of Inﬂuencing the Activities of the
Organization or Its Members. No'participation under this procedure shall be authorized
for the purpose of inﬂuencing the activities of the organization in question, or its
members, unless such participation is undertaken on behalf of the FBI in the course of a
lawful investigation, or the organization concerned is composed primarily of individuals
who are not United States persons and is reasonably believed to be acting on behalf of a
foreign power. Any DoD intelligence component that desires to undertake participation
for such purpose shall forward its request to the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense
(Policy) setting forth the relevant facts justifying such participation and explaining the
‘ nature of its contemplated activity. Such participation may be approved by the
DUSD(P) with the concurrence of the General Counsel, DoD.

C10.3 . 2. Required Approvals

C 10.3.2.1. Undisclosed Participation That Mav Be Approved Within the DoD
Intelligence Component. Undisclosed participation on behalf of a DoD intelligence
component may be authorized with such component under the following circumstances:

C10.3.2.1.1. Participation in meetings open to the public. For purposes
of this section, a seminar or conference sponsored by a professional organization that is
open to persons of a particular profession, whether or not they are members of the
organization itself or have received a special invitation, shall be considered a meeting
open to the public.

C10.3.2.1.2. Participation in organizations that permit other persons
acknowledged to the organization to be employees of the US. Government to
participate.

C10.3.2.1.3. Participation in educational or professional organizations
for the purpose of enhancing the professional skills, knowledge, or capabilities of
employees.

CIO.3.2.1.4. Participation in seminars, forums, conferences, exhibitions,
trade fairs, workshops, symposiums, and similar types of meetings,.sponsored by
organizations in which the employee is a member, has been invited to participate, or

5 1 CHAPTER 10

