DoD 524 0.1 —R, December 1982

when the sponsoring organization does not require disclosure of the participants'
employment afﬁliations, for the purpose of collecting signiﬁcant foreign intelligence
that is generally made available to participants at such meetings, and does not involve
the domestic activities of the organization or its members.

C 10.3.2.2. Participation That Mav Be Approved By Senior Intelligence
Ofﬁcials. Undisclosed participation may be authorized by the Deputy Under Secretary
. of Defense (Policy); the Director, Defense Intelligence Agency; the Assistant Chief of
Staff for Intelligence, Department of Army; the Commanding General, US. Army .
Intelligence and Security Command; the Director of Naval Intelligence; the Director of
Intelligence, US. Marine Corps; the Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence, United States
Air Force; the Director, Naval Investigative Service; the Commanding Ofﬁcer, Air Force
Office of Special Investigations; or their single designees, for the following purposes:

ClO.3.2.2.1. To collect signiﬁcant foreign intelligence outside the
United States, or from or about other than United States persons within the United
States, provided no information involving the domestic activities of the organization or
its members may be collected.

ClO.3.2.2.2. For counterintelligence purposes, at the written request of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

ClO.3.2.2.3. To collect signiﬁcant counterintelligence about other than
United States persons, or about United States persons who are within the investigative
jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, provided any such participation that occurs
within the United States shall be coordinated with the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

CIO.3.2.2.4. To collect information necessary to identify and assess
other than United States persons as potential sources of assistance for foreign
intelligence and counterintelligence activities.

ClO.3.2.2.5. To collect information necessary to identify United States
persons as potential sources of assistance to foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence activities.

ClO.3.2.2.6. To develop or maintain cover necessary for the security of
foreign intelligence or counterintelligence activities.

CIO.3.2.2.7. Outside the United States, to assess United States persons as
potential sources of assistance toforeign intelligence and counterintelligence activities.

52 CHAPTER 10

