Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Gaming Markets: Why We Care
Demographics

The gaming population crosses age, gender and cultural boundaries, making
inroads into previously untapped markets and providing terrorist organizations with a
powerful platform to reach core target audiences.

° The core demographic for gaming is 18 — 35 year-old males. However, the
average age of the typical “gamer” increases by one year each year and women
now comprise nearly one-third of all adult gamers.1

° The online gaming population is expected to grow rapidly in the near term,
resulting in an estimated 10 million online game players in the US. (i.e. the
equivalent of the entire population of New York City) and 30 million online game
players worldwide (i.e. the equivalent of the entire population of Shanghai,
Bombay and Karachi combined).11

0 While the majority of online gamers originate from US. and Asian markets, the
rapid expansion of Internet cafes and broadband technologies will enable the
growth of online gaming populations in other regions. For example, the fastest ..
growing gaming markets are occurring in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.111

- Gaming sales continue to increase by a compound annual rate of 19.1%. Sales
surpassed 23 billion USD in 2003 and are estimated to reach 56 billion USD by
2008. In turn, revenues reached approximately $6 billion in 2004 and are
projected to reach $14.3 billion by 2009.iV

Popularity

Gaming has emerged as the preeminent form of entertainment among 18 — 35 year-
old males. Consequently, the gaming industry now rivals traditional entertainment
industries, including the ﬁlm and music industries in terms of growth, revenue, and
consumption.v

0 For example, the gaming industry is growing by 20% compared to 7.5%, 7.1%
and 2% growth rates in the film, television, and music industries during the same
period. Furthermore, AC Nielson predicts that within four years, the film industry
will be just one-third the size of the computer game market.VI

° Game users typically spend 20-30 hours per week on online games and more than
20% of online gamers identify themselves as residents of virtual worlds.Vll

° The stereotype of the lonely gamer spending long hours in social isolation is no
longer tenable. While some games are played by singular or a group of isolated
players, computer gaming now is increasingly social with the growth of Local

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 6

