Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Functionality of Online Games

Games are platforms on which participants may communicate, coordinate,
socialize, train, learn, simulate, experiment, build, proselytize and even barter virtual
goods. Such functions indicate that the line between the ‘virtual’ world and the ‘real’
world is blurring, and to some users may be non-existent.

° That virtual worlds are becoming synonymous with the real world, provides and
interesting opportunity for terrorists to conduct a range of activities with
anonymity.

As virtual worlds become more popular, pervasive, and sophisticated, so too will
terrorist opportunities to exploit them.

° For example, as gaming becomes increasingly popular across multiple
demographics and access to various gaming platforms increases (i.e. access to
personal computers, Internet cafes, and mobile platforms), it will become easier
for terrorist groups to reach core target audiences. For these reasons, many expect
that terrorist groups will increasingly leverage online and computer based games
to support their activities in the future.

Propaganda and Inﬂuence

Terrorist groups and sympathizers could use games to twist historical context,
demonize enemies, disrupt the social moral compass, and desensitize users to
violence.“

° Games designed to appeal to terrorist sympathizers leverage salient political
themes and typically exploit “pro-Arab” and “anti-Israel” sentiment. Such games
attract players because they provide them with a consonant message and an
opportunity to take part ‘virtually’ in “resistance movements.”x

° Special Force, developed by Hezbollah, plays on the common themes of “Israeli
occupation” and “Palestinian victimization,” and offers players the opportunity to
‘fight back’ by ‘digitally’ reenacting various elements of the Intifada. For
instance, the introductory level of Special F 0rce involves target practice and
shooting exercises, using images of Israeli Generals as the mark. Later levels
involve the ‘digital’ reenactment of battles that. have occurred between the IDF
and Palestinians during the Israeli occupation.XI

° Special F 0rce was intentionally designed by Hezbollah to reinforce and
disseminate the group’s values, concepts, and ideas among supporters and
sympathizers, while giving passive supporters the opportunity to experience the
viscera of the front lines."11 Special F 0rce is available in Arabic, French, English,
and Farsi, and thus is widely available to traditional Hezbollah audiences and
others."111

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 8

