Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Under Ash and its sequel Under Siege were published by the Syrian company Dar
al-Fikr. The player takes the role of a Palestinian national opposing the occupiers
from Israel. Under Siege, in particular, is based on actual events, but is presented
from the Syrian perspective. The game employs Visceral imagery and sound,
including scenes of Palestinian children being murdered, summary executions
being held in public streets, high-speed chase scenes and sounds of gunfire and
heart pumping music. The scenes too are designed to evoke outrage and to play
on common themes, including “Israeli occupation,” “Injustice,” and “Revenge”.

The Iranian Islamic Students Association has also developed an online game,
Commander Bahman, in which users play the role of a special-forces unit tasked
with protecting Iranian nuclear capabilities from American aggression. This
game was developed in direct response to a Kuma Reality Games release, Assault
on Iran. Kuma has subsequently developed another installment, Assault on Iran,
Pt.3, in the hopes that this international dialogue, sparked by the depiction of
global affairs in the game space, will continue. Assault on Iran, Pt. 3 is planned

- xiv

be released in Arabic, English, and Fars1.

Video games make particular assumptions within their environment that can
transcend a specific message to users.

For example, the games Ummah Defense and Ummah Defense II (free for
download on the Internet), are set in the future, based on the premise that at some
point in history Muslims will have conquered the world and killed or converted
all non-Muslims. Users act as a member of the Intergalactic Muslim Council,
working to protect Earth from the sole disbeliever and in his army of robots sent
to destroy the Earth — it was necessary to construct robots as all other humans
believe in Islam. The overarching message is that establishment of the caliphate
is possible.xv Playing games within this context allows users to experience this
reality in a sensory way that makes the message “real.”

Video games are an ideal inﬂuence platform because they incorporate imagery,
narrative, camaraderie, and action.

This combination works because advanced imagery and graphics can be used to
engage the senses, storylines can be used to provide a context and group goals,
camaraderie in the form of multiple players facilitates higher levels of
engagement, and action in the form of participation is required.XVI

Radical groups are using gaming platforms to propagate religious ideology. This
can take place in a number of different ways. For example, a FPS game can help
demonize a declared enemy, while educational games can offer manipulated religious
doctrine as scripture.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 9

