Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

For example, Innovative Minds, Inc. has developed a series of six ‘multi-level’
downloadable games, entitled “Islamic Fun” which are aimed at “teaching
children between the ages of 5 and 11 years of age about Islam.” “Islamic Fun” is
marketed as a “faith-based” alternative to “secular” games and includes many age
appropriate game titles, including Fishing Bear, Tree Hop, and Two Bunny Race.
However, embedded in this game package is another game, entitled The
Resistance, in which users assume the role of farmers in Southern Lebanon who
join the Islamic Resistance against invading Israelis.xvu Many believe that these
types of games encourage anti-Semitism and promote terrorism.xvm

Communications

Games provide attractive communications channels for terrorist groups and sympathizers
because in-game conversations often are difficult or impossible to monitor.

Many games contain capabilities like VoIP, chat, and ﬁle transfers that allow real-time
communications to take place, and few sites monitor such traffics or keep log ﬁles as
would traditional Internet service providers (ISPs).

Massively Multiplayer Online Games (MMOG) are ideal locations to support secure
terrorist communications because of the enormous scale on which they are played. At a
given time thousands of subscribers can be connected to a virtual world on various game
servers. Potentially complicating matters are that some games can be hosted by gamers
on their own dedicated server or PC.

In-game communication channels would be difficult to collect by current Internet
control methods, because speech and text mingles with data from the game. This
increases the chances that authorities will overlook communications they would
normally prohibit.

Recruitment

Online gaming can serve as a recruiting tool. This has already proven true in the
US, as the US Army found that 28% of players logging on to play its, “America’s Army”
online game also visited the corresponding recruitment site.

Monitoring strategy games like Counterstrike can be an effective way to track
individual skill levels in firearms, tactical operations, group cohesion, leadership,
etc. This information can then be used by interested parties to evaluate
qualifications for military or insurgent recruitment.

Participation in virtual communities can facilitate off-line activity. Members of
terrorist groups could enter or monitor online game environments with the intent
of translating ‘Virtual’ skills and actions into real world commitments and
activities.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 10

