Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Training and Simulation

Games can supplement field training by familiarizing recruits with the tactics,
weaponry, and skills needed to conduct operations. Military type games can be used to
help acquire skills in team work, communications, leadership, and operational tactics.
This trend is likely to manifest itself in the near future, as games are increasingly
leveraging real time data from the battle field.

° Culturally accurate games can help foreign terrorists avoid profile raising
mistakes and assist in assimilation.

° Combat simulators, such as those developed by BBN Technologies as part of the
Pentagon’s DARWARS project, are used to help soldiers bound for Iraq prepare
for combat. Among the offerings: DARWARS Ambush! a combat simulation .
game designed to train up to 24 soldiers at a time in military convoy operations.XIX

° Increasingly realistic virtual environments further blur the lines between the
virtual and real worlds — these environments create immersive environments that
draw users into the game world. This results in more true-to—life training grounds,
and enhances a game’s underlying message as the user experience becomes more
immersive.

° The US military is currently using games as a tool to equip personnel with
training in numerous key areas including, tactical planning, mission rehearsal,
incorporating lessons learned, and tactical language training. xx

° COTS programs used to develop combat simulators are inexpensive, widely
available, and could offer terrorist groups the opportunity to simulate attacks prior
to their execution. Such programs could enable fairly accurate damage
assessments and provide insight into necessary course correction to limit risk and
unintended consequences associated with a particular attack. For example, the
Maya Unlimited ﬂuid simulation software, available for $159, offers users the
ability to re-create the mushroom cloud caused by a nuclear explosion. Users can
control the inﬂuence of fuel and other attributes, and add key ingredients such as
temperature scale, buoyancy, dissipation, turbulence, and diffusion.

° Games could also be used as part of the attack plan itself. With the rise of mobile
gaming, terrorist groups can use the platform to its advantage; instead of planting
a bomb near a crowd of people, for example, it can place one at a random location
and lead game players to the bomb.*

 

* This is speculative based on ﬂash mobs and mobile gaming use. Flash mobs are groups of people that
converge in public places for brief periods of time and dissipate quickly there after. Flash mobs have
occurred worldwide and are frequently organized around political protest efforts. The French riots of 2005
were organized largely through ﬂash mob efforts. Paired with mobile scavenger hunting location based or
mixed reality games, ﬂash mobs have the potential to concentrate people rapidly at the site of the “win.”

See stories on ﬂash mobs: hgp://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-3056735,00.html;
hgp://in.rediff.com/netguide/2003/oct/05ﬂash.htm. Some examples of location based games include:

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 11

