Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

F undraising

Newer games offer greater opportunities for terror groups to raise and distribute
funds. Funds used in online games can be uploaded in one location and downloaded in
another, which is particularly easy if multiple users can access a single ID.

The goods, services, and currencies of virtual worlds have real-world impact. In
2005, E-bay category 1654, “Internet Games,” had $30 million dollars in sales in
the United States. Similarly in Asia, real-cash Virtual item trade exceeds $100
million annually.XXI Current estimates indicate that intangible goods in digital
worlds are worth $1-$2 billion.xxn

Because users are able to create their own content in games, entrepreneurs profit
in real-world dollars by selling professional services or goods. One Virtual real
estate mogul in Second Life makes nearly $150,000 per year in real-world dollars.

Fund raising efforts are already happening in Virtual worlds. In 2006, American
Cancer Society (ACS) held its second virtual Relay for Life in Second Life. ACS
collected over $40,000 and attracted nearly 1,000 participants.xxm

Individuals organize to raise funds for charitable efforts. After Hurricane Katrina,
some individuals banded together to hold live fundraising events in Second Life to
help victims.XXIV

Organizations could use virtual worlds as a vehicle for generating income. While
the money raised might not be enough to fund a sizable organization, it could be a
revenue source for smaller cells.

Ease of Production of Games

The growing availability of middleware or mods drastically lowers the barriers of
entry for game development, allowing almost anyone to become a game builder.
Middleware products are available for a marginal fee (usually the cost of a game) or
can be downloaded free from the Internet.

Mods are typically used to create additional content to games (partial
conversions) or new games (total conversions). Popular middleware products
include 3D world building packages such as Genesis 3D, Quake, Unreal, and
Half-Life; multiplayer adventure games like Aurora Toolkit; and systems for
handling massively multiplayer games like BigWorld, Butterﬂy.net, and

T erazona.

 

Botfighter series, Gunslinger series, Mogi, UnderCover series, Swordfish and Torpedo Bay, Coanest,
The Journey II, and Treasure Hunt. See a research paper of mixed reality mobile gaming:
hgp://research.microsoft.coml~shahrami/papers/tech02.pdf#search='mixed%20realigl%20gaming.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 12

