Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Middleware products have been used to create popular commercial games such as
Counterstrike (Half-Life) and America’s Army (Unreal); as well as several games
of a more questionable nature, including Ethnic Cleansing (Genesis 3D), Under
Ash (Genesis 3D) and Special Force (Genesis 3D).

Mods not only provide a developmental shortcut, but also enable game producers to
“improve” existing games, whereby increasing their popularity.

Mods can be used to transform existing games. For example, unidentified gamers
modified the FPS game Battlefield 2 enabling players to take on the role of
extremists whose home Village in Iraq suffered collateral damage during a
fictional US operation.XXV

Another prime example of the use of mods is the CD-ROM game Ethnic
Cleansing, produced by Resistance Records, to promote the white supremacy
agenda. The game promotes the killing of “sub-humans” (other races and Jews)
in a setting similar to New York City. The game is patterned after popular
mainstream Video games Quake and Doom, turning racially motivated violence
into a form of “entertainment.” Users are given the option of assuming the role of
a KKK Member or a Skinhead.

Kuma Games develops free, episodic games for their users based on recent real
world events. With the assistance of the Valve’s Source game engine,XXVI modular
software that provides enhancements in several key areas of game production,
including character animation, advanced AI and real-world physics, Kuma is
easily able to produce immersive, realistic games in little time. Additionally, in
an effort to make the games more easily downloaded by users in the Middle East,
Kuma has developed a Persia Disk that can easily be copied and redistributed.
Using the disk, once the game design is loaded onto the user’s PC, no Internet
connection is required to play, although a low-band connection is adequate to
attain new episodes.xxvn

Terrorist groups likely could reduce development costs further by soliciting
sympathizers with the required skill sets to work for free or reduce costs as their
contribution to the Jihad analogous to how religious game developers operate to
reduce costs.xxvm College students provide a plausible target for recruitment.

Machinima is ﬁlm making within the real-time 3D virtual environment of a video
game. It’s the use of video game graphics technology to create animated films.
Machinima combines aspects of film making, animation and game design to transform an
interactive medium, a Video game, into a production studio complete with sets, props,
special effects and virtual actors. All that is required is a game and a desktop computer.
Like traditional movies, machinima allows for character development and the creation of
plot lines.

 

T For a machinima example that uses military characters and explains machinima, see
Machinima! With Officer Dan at hgp://www.machinima.con1/films.php?id=4676

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 13

