Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Software to make machinima productions costs little or nothing. Websites like
www.fraps.com provide trial versions of machinima software, such as the one
used to produce “Sonic Jihadxm,” and allow users to create quality machinima
productions. Productions, such as “Sonic Jihad,” which are made with trial
versions of machinima software frequently place their websites directly in the
center of the screen in order to drive people to their sites to purchase full versions.
Productions like “Sonic Jihad” not only can promote propaganda, but direct
sympathizers who wish to create similar productions to the software needed.

In 2005, a machinima, “French Democracy” depicted the views of the minorities
during the French riots. The well-developed story carries a political message
allowing one to sympathize with the minority position in the riots. The
machinima was produced on November 22, just 5 days after the riots ended.

Similar to using mods to develop games, real-time Video capture software, like
Fraps, allows users to record Video of the activity taking place on one’s PC,
during game play, for example. Once downloaded, this software “records” to
capture audio and Video bits up to 1152x864 and 100 frames per second.xxx The
use of such software in games like Kuma/Wars would allow users to develop
machinima productions of recent combat events adding their own twist.

 

 

Features of Fraps Real-time Video Capture Software

Screen capturing — Digital images taken by the software recording the visible
items on the monitor as a screenshot in formats such as BMP, PNG and J PG.

Real-time video capturing — Digital images taken by the software recording the
visible items on the monitor (or another visual output device) over an extended
period of time, as the action is taking place, to form a video file.

Screencast/Screen Recording — Digital recording of a computer screen output,
often containing audio narration.

 

 

 

 

 

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 14

