TOP SECRETHCDMNTHREL TO LlSﬂi, F‘v'E‘f

th filter the FDRHSAT survev environment fer this traffic and extract varieus tvpes ef
WcIW rnetadata fcIrSlGlNT develepment and netwcirlt ltnciwledge enrichment.

[U] Cemmunicatien is at the care cif cInline gaming
and in WeW there are manv wavs th
cemmunicate and interact in ihe virtual werld. A
plaver has a character ID and can chin different
grciups. A "partv" hrings plavers tcigether fer a
cemmcin, defined purpese cIr guest. It is
tempcirarv and taslt—ciriented. "Guilds," en the
ether hand, are far characters with persisting
relaticInships and can take an an erganizaticinal
structure with ranlts and pdsiticins. The guild is
mere permanent and idecIlcigieal. Characters ean
ecimmunieate ver‘pallv and ncin-verhallv and mav
set up different types cIf ehannels tci tallr within a
guild cir privatelv, eharaetertci eharaeter.

    

4'
a.
(U) Warld cIfWarcraft

[TSHSIHRELJ GCHD reeentlv aslred rleS's New lvlissicin Develdpment Center [NMDCJ
th suppert an amine gaming research effert fecusing cIn WeW. Eager th assist in a new
petential area cIf target develcipment. the NMDC discussed metadata needs with GCHD
in cirder tci enahle WdW target and FIEt'U'IIDi'H research in the FDRHSAT arena. The
valDC engaged SHORT, an epen sclurce packet—sniffing sciftware, which runs an all
FERN SAT survev paeltet data, te filter cIut WdW paeltets. GEHG! previded several
WeW pretecel parsing scripts th precess the traffic: and prcIduc:e Warcraft metadata frcIm
all vallZiC FDRNSAT survev. These legs are new peing fenuvarded paelt th ECHD fer
additienal analvsis, target develclpment and netwcirlt Hnewledge enrichment. Elv fusing
infcIrmaticIn frcIm different svstems, databases, and rescIurc:es GCHD has cerrelated
target entities th WcIW chchn events and centinues th unccrverpetential SIGINT value pv
identifving aceeunts, characters, and guilds related th Islamic: Extremist Greups, Nuclear
Preliferatidn and Arms Dealing.

[TSHSIHRELJ WcIW eertainlv prcivides entertainment fer a large number cIf peciple
wcirldwide, put its gaming fennat ean previde a virtual erganizaticinal platfcirm fer
pcitential SIGINT targets as well. Furthermcire, this teehncilclgv can assist the target and
simultaneciuslv assist the SIGINT ecimmunitv in traelting that target. The "New gaming
infrastrueture prevides ample infdrmatien fcIr netwerlt develepment thrdugh the data
passed during WcIW messages, such as eeuntrv and time :cnne infcinnaticin, Ideal IP
addresses and realm server addresses. In terms cif active target develepment, there are
clear parallels: tradiljcinal SIGIHT develcipment mav fcilchw emails, that and huddv lists,
whereas WeW target develclpment mav fcIlchw character IDs and legens, gaming
cemmunicaticin channels and guilds.

[TSHSIHREL] MHS and GCHD will EIZIr‘Itlf‘ILlE tIZI devEIDp and epllapcirate IZIf‘I tl‘IlS
pcitentiallv lucrative venue.

TOP SECREI'HCCIMNTHREL TD LISJﬂ, F‘U’E‘f E

