Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Games often require action without expertise, forcing players to experiment and
learn.xxxvm Such learning experiences often involve role exploration, project execution,
and operating within a game producer’s version of facts and history.

° Role exploration — or choosing a virtual persona and acting out-this role in the
game — teaches players the challenges and limits of that role.xxm

° Multi-player games which require numerous individuals to carry out a mission
teach players how to become leaders and execute a collaborative project in its
entirety.“1

° Immersion in a game producer’s version of facts or history teaches players how to
operate in the defined socio-political environment. This can result in player
empathy toward a particular cause."11

Applied Teaching Tool

Games can reinforce previous learning experiences by allowing players to interact
with issues, ideologies, products and events in active and passive ways.

° Studies have shown that players who interact with messages, products and the like
have higher recollection levels of those messages.

0 Active participation elicits emotional responses, helping the message to resonate
more strongly with the player.

° Often used following other types of learning about a specific environment,
simulations teach users how to operate in environments via virtual participation in
them. Effective simulation experiences result in particular responses when
players are faced with similar situations in the physical world.

Schools, private businesses and governments are investing in simulations,
advergames and in-game promotions to reach and teach their respective target
audiences.x

° Schools are increasingly using games in their curricula. Students report feeling
like learning is not “wor ” with games, and spend more time with the subject
matter than if they were reading a book about the topic. Some studies indicate
that students retain information from games more effectively than from books
because of the “immersion” factor of games.

° Many companies believe advergaming is an effective way to market-land “brand”
their product. Advergames target younger, tech-savvy consumers."1111 Yankee

 

i For example, in World of Warcraﬁ players learn how to plan and execute missions. Players meet prior to
a mission to develop a strategy, determine what roles they will play and how they will execute them. Often
leaders keep statistics on their players. Following the mission, individuals will review the mission’s
success and player performance.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 20

