Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Group estimates the in-game advertising market will reach $732 million annually
by 2010."11v Already, the names or products of multinational companies such as
Coca-Cola, Pepsi, Panasonic, Viewsonic, Motorola, Castrol, Nokia, McDonalds,
Sprite, LG and HP have appeared in international game titles in an effort to
promote their brands and products.XIV

Governments are using games for military training. Games such as Delta Force
2, Steel Beasts and Falcon 4.0 have been adapted by various armed forces to
enhance their relevance to military training. Singapore Armed Forces’ Defense
Science and Technology Agency has been adapting the games Chain of Command
and Operation F lashpoint to suit its needs. The Singapore School of Combat
Engineers and School of Armor have modified Operation F lashpoint to their
specific missions, including the use of booby traps, wire and mines.XIVI

Passive Messaging and Conditioning

The structure of games promotes winning through a set values system. The strong
emotions that games can elicit deepen these learning experiences.

Games that elicit strong emotions can predispose a player toward a particular
Viewpoint or cause, or provoke specific reactions on the part of the player.

Value Systems

The structure of games promotes winning through a set values system.

Players often must adopt a specific set of values in order to achieve a “win” or
positive outcome in the game. Sometimes, these values form the context of the
game.

Ethnic Cleansing, which was released in 2002 by Resistance Records, is an
example of a game in which a particular set of “values” form the context of the
game and players are rewarded for adhering to this value system. Players choose
the role of a Skinhead or KKK member, and “take out” as many black, Latino and
Jewish avatars as possible. Racial slurs are made throughout the game, which
also portrays negative stereotypes.XIVIl

Teams or “clans” in massive multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs)
which are formed at advanced levels of games to allow players to achieve greater
status, ranking and advancement, adopt their own value systems, rules and
cultures.XIVlll At this level, players can only be successful by adopting the clan’s
modus operandi.

Emotions

The strong emotions that games can elicit deepen learning experiences. x

lix

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 21

