Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

 

MMORPGs and Virtual Worlds

Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games (MMORPGs) are online computer
role-playing games in which a large number of players interact with one another in a
virtual world. MMORPGs are distinguished from Role Playing Games“: by their
“persistence”, i.e. the Virtual world continues to exist and evolve even when the player is
not playing the game.

° Leading titles include EverQuest, Star Wars Galaxies, World of Warcraft,
Lineage, Ma, and The Legend of Mir.

 

 

Guild In-game as Team at Work‘xii

“. . .A guild is a collection of players who come together to share knowledge, resources,
and manpower. To run a large one, a guild master must be adept at many skills:
attracting, evaluating, and recruiting new members; creating apprenticeship programs;
orchestrating group strategy; and adjudicating disputes. Guilds routinely splinter over
petty squabbles and other basic failures of management; the master must resolve them
without losing valuable members, who can easily quit and join a rival guild. Never mind
the virtual surroundings; these conditions provide real—world training a manager can
apply directly in the workplace...”

--Taken from:

You Play World of Warcraft? You’re Hired!
by John Seeley Brown and Douglas Thomas
Wired Magazine

 

 

While MMORPGs involve undertaking missions that are eventually “won” or “lost,”
virtual worlds focus on daily activities and social interactions.

° Virtual world environments allow users to communicate and participate in
activities simultaneously with other users regardless of the physical distance
between them.

0 Typically producers establish a Virtual world and allow users to develop space and
design items within the world.

 

H RPGs require players to undertake a role and play out a narrative in simulated 'worlds' with pre-
programmed characters and quests. Players can customize their characters and then interact with other
players to complete goals or quests. RPGs have been produced using both first-person and third-person
perspectives. Some popular examples of this genre are Ultima, Final Fantasy, Diablo, and Fallout.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 29

