Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Frequent interaction with his network helps the leader monitor the level of his team
members’ commitment to the cause and ensure that they do not waver from the group’s
tactical and strategic missions. This also helps the leader prevent members from
“defecting” or otherwise becoming a threat to the cell.

Some of the terrorist network members living in a remote location with Internet access
raise funds via “gold farming,” a virtual form of the “sweat shop.” Their laborers play
games to develop the best, strongest in—game characters which are then sold online for a
profit at sites like E—bay.ll

° Because of the games’ entertainment value, terrorist network members encourage
players to “wor ” for them or raise funds themselves by simply playing games
and then selling items.

Other network associates participate in traditional fundraising. Second Life allows players
to contact the organizer of like—groups, perhaps “humanitarian” organizations that support
particular causes, and send mass emails to encourage participation in special interest
events. Donations are laundered to fund terror activities.

° Terrorist groups are introduced to new sympathizers in this way.

° Other associates hold invitation—only “town meetings” or “group meetings” to
impress viewpoints upon potential recruits.

 

 

 

Virtual Worlds and MMORPGs as a Film Set
Machinima: From Game space to Video

Gaming can serve as a platform for propaganda video production. For example,
machinima is filmmaking within the real—time 3D virtual environment of a video game.
All that is required is a game and a desktop computer.lX1V The combination of machinima
software and a virtual world or video game such as Planet Battleﬁeld, allows one to film
their in—game activities as they play to develop a film which is easily distributed over the
Internet.

Terrorists could easily exploit this technology. Through the use of virtual
characters and audio mash—ups a terrorist could anonymously create machinima films that
included speeches, updates, and briefings. He could use the technology of virtual
communities to create target sites to convey to cell members the next planned attack, use
games to give a visual plan of how the attack should be carried out, and familiarize
teammates with the terrain of the intended site with the technology of Second Life.
Additionally, one could use machinima to create a likable, militant hero with whom their
target audience could identify.

 

ll During the month of December, SAIC analysts periodically checked e—Bay for characters and items for

 

sale. It was common to see a high-level character with special skills in World of Warcraft or Everquest on
sale for approximately US$2,000 with only minutes left in the auctions.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 31

 

