Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

 

Exhibit 3-5: Sopranos Alternate Reality Game

Passwnlu
§ ——W

Many alternate or mixed
reality games begin as
promotional efforts. Some
of the most elaborate cost
more than $500,000. To
promote the premiere of
the Sopranos, A&E has
developed a mixed reality
game played both on the

Welcome Ill The Game

I! you're meelmg The Sopranos lor the ﬁrst time
or already leel llke pan of The ramlly, here's
your chance al a I19 score

Play The Sopranos A&E connecuon Game [or a
chance to wm $100,000 cash!

THE SETUP: Called game DIeCeS - 4n ads ormne
and In the real world . and Stole points every

suitcase Wlm $100,000 In cash and even/one

marytrew
has a chance lo wm weekly nrlzes

Sludm

" me a new episode olThe Soplanos nremleres TonysBigRed
' D \ U" A&E cmnoslu
YHE PAVOFF: The top scorlng playerwms a dalre

Play the llama

Learn more about howlo play here

Try the llama

Goomans
Lewamrs
Marys People
NITRO

Internet and in the real-
world and involving
searches for particular
advertisements and other

Tony S

“sightings.”
Tip onne Day

WEIIIIESMVS BPIIBI: PREMIEHES JANUARY“!

‘Study Up- on Season 1 (and ﬁne a
piece) althe A&E Store

 

 

 

 

Alternate Reality Scenario #1

This scenario is fictitious. A terrorist cell is planning to bomb the US embassy in Jakarta.
Alternate or mixed reality games allow the cell to practice the attack in a realistic
environment with unexpected people, noise, and obstacles.

° During the dry run, cell members communicate through the operations
coordinator, who has access to the Internet and a telephone.

° As the members communicate during the dry run in the real world, it looks to
other people like they are innocently talking on their cell phones, looking at their
palm pilots, or sending text messages to friends. In fact they are calling
headquarters with information on security cameras, wiring, security guards, power
sources, crowd congregation locations and other data, following maps on their
PDAs, and communicating with team members.

° With location tracking devices, the coordinator could track GPS positions of cell
phones or capture team members’ movements with other members’ cameras and
video phones.

° The cell carries out its mission in the same manner that it had practiced using
mixed reality gaming tools.

Alternate Reality Scenario #2

This scenario is fictitious. A terrorist cell wishes to draw a crowd to a specific location in
Seattle, and then distribute a contagious biological agent. A cell develops an alternate
reality game and posts it on the alternate reality game network on the Internet.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 33

 

