TOP SECRET//COMINT//REL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL//20320108
Microsoft’s Flight Simulator. When the mission is expensive, risky, or dangerous, it is often a
wiser idea to exercise virtually, rather than really blow an operative up assembling a bomb or
exposing a sleeper agent to law enforcement scrutiny. Militaries around the world use virtual
simulators with great success and the Hizballah has even hooked up a Playstation controller to a
laptop in order to guide some of its real missiles. Kuma Wars is a U.S. owned company that
offers realistic battle simulation of real battles in Iraq usually one month after they actually
happened. The player can re-do maneuvers in a lessons learned way for training, or you can
switch sides and see how it works from the opposite side. It also provides real terrain features,
such as real road signs from real roads in Iraq, and a simulated night-vision goggles
environment.

(TS//SI) Al Qaida terrorist target selectors and GVE executables have been found associated
with XboxLive, Second Life, World of Warcraft, and other GVEs in PINWALE network trafﬁc,
TAO databases, and in forensic data. Other targets include Chinese hackers, an Iranian nuclear
scientist, Hizballah, and Hamas members. GCHQ has a vigorous effort to exploit GVEs and has
produced exploitation modules in XboxLive! and World of Warcraft. After beta testing, they
expect reporting to begin in April 2008. The FBI, CIA and the Defense Humint Service all have
HUMINT operations in Second Life and other GVEs and are very interested in forming a
deconﬂiction and tipping group that would be able to collaborate on operations.

(TS//SI) GVEs are an opportunity! We can use games for: CNE exploits, social network
analysis, HUMINT targeting, ID tracking (photos, doc IDs), shaping activities, geo-location of
target, and collection of comms. It has been well documented that terrorists are OPSEC and tech
saavy and are only getting more so over time. These applications and their servers however, are
trusted by their users and makes an connection to another computer on the Internet, which can
then be exploited. Through target buddylists and interaction found in the gaming and on gaming
web sites, social networks can be diagramed and previously unknown SIGINT leads and
connections and terrorists cells discovered. GVEs can contain on-line presence indicators,
geolocation, and ID tracking can be gleaned and used in apprehension operations.

(TS//SI) Recommendation: The amount of GVEs in the world is growing but the speciﬁc ones
that CT needs to be methodically discovered and validated. Only then can we ﬁnd evidence that
GVEs are being used for operational uses. Protocol Exploitation, SFL, and TAO should begin
proﬁling their databases and the GVEs for collection and exploitation possibilities. Open source
(APSTARS) produced GVE lists and selectors should be used to run against UTT and other
databases to check for cross matches to develop target selectors. CT SIGDEV along with CT
TOPIs will study the collected trafﬁc to ﬁnd and track targets of interest. There should be a
concentrated effort to conduct research into target use of GVEs, and signatures for survey
collection should be developed. Targets and speciﬁc apps should be chosen to exploit to ensure
that terrorists’ GVE/social site usage is covered by SIGINT and the system is not left behind the
times. All avenues should be taken to develop PBS and CNE exploits as GVEs are found on
target computers. We need to develop a viewer/db that allows linguist/analysts to
view/experience voice/text/video trafﬁc together and archivee the GVE data associated with
reporting. which will also be essential for Yahoo, Skype, webcam, VTCs and Biometrics.

(S//SI) CT SIGDEV/SSG should establish a process to deconﬂict IC-wide ops in GVEs and to
develop strategy for collaboration. Members from at least CIA, FBI, DIA, NSA and GCHQ
should participate to make the coordination signiﬁcant. Members should have ability to check
tasking, trafﬁc, and status of current operations.

TOP SECRET//COMINT//REL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL//20320108

