Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Simulation Games

Simulation games allow gamers a chance to experience and practice a role, activity or
skill in the safety of the virtual world. Popular experiences in these games include ﬂying,
racing, sporting, and building.

0 There are many kinds of users of simulation games. For example, to train soldiers
the United States military uses simulation games including ﬂight simulators,
urban warfare simulations, and even communication simulations for deployment
in foreign countries.

° Likewise, terrorist cells could use simulation games for communication,
recruitment and team management as well as for dry-runs of missions.

° Some of the most successful titles include Microsoft Flight Simulator, Gran
Turismo, Madden NFL, and SimCity.

 

 

Simulation Scenario

This scenario is ﬁctitious. A terrorist leader wants to stage a biological and chemical
attack on several Washington, DC, Metro stations simultaneously. The cell leader would
like to simulate all stages of such an attack including the construction, transportation and
implementation of the plan. Basic benefits of a simulated attack include:

° Cell members use virtual simulation to monitor times and locations to carry out
an attack across multiple stations.

° Cell members use virtual simulation to case the environment prior to the attack in
order to identify and mitigate potential obstacles.

° The cell leader is able to integrate digital imagery and simulated sounds to
acclimate operators in order that they execute the attack more effectively.

Mapping programs such as Google earth can be integrated into online simulation games
to reconstruct streets, buildings and other topographical features near potential attack
sites.

° The cell leader integrates information provided by the city inspector’s office,
including actual building codes and utility locations to generate more accurate
game construction.

A software program that simulates hospital and laboratory environments is uploaded into
the game space. The software is intended for training medical staff and laboratory
technicians about safe handling and storage of dangerous chemicals and biological
agents. It also trains first responders on containing spills. Cell members use this
program to learn safe handling, transport and deployment of the chemical and biological
agents they will use.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 36

 

