 

Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Utilizing actual plans for the Metro system provide insight into tunnel and station
structures. Such plans accurately portray the location and significance of key power
sources, ventilation ducts, and other infrastructure features critical to an effective
biological attack.

' The cell leader utilizes software that scans the structural and architectural plans of
key structures to create a 3—D virtual metro system. He then places the virtual
Metro system on a password protected island in a virtual world and shares the
password with other cell members.

Additional details are entered into the virtual metro station using the same techniques.
Cell members casing the ‘real’ metro system identify security checks, including camera
and video installations and then program their locations.

' By integrating these systems into the simulated metro system, the cell members
identify and overcome obstacles through trial and error. Identifying and inputting
passenger traffic patterns through the Metro system further enables accuracy in
planning and executing attacks.

' The breadth of data and sophistication of the software programs allows the cell to
perform damage assessments against each scenario to help predict which
conditions would be most effective in delivering a chemical or biological
infections.

Through their dry runs, experimentation and practice, the simulation, in its entirety,
determine the optimal operation while maximizing the effectiveness and impact.

As the scenarios are being planned and practice, the cell leader obtains sensors to monitor
cell members’ biological responses. Further, some games have features that allow

leaders to monitor player statistics.

' He hooks the cell members up to these sensors and has them perform various
tasks related to the simulation and monitors their responses.

' This helps the cell member determine the roles of the members based on their
natural responses.

' It also helps identify training or conditioning that must occur before the mission.

' The cell member also tracks player performance and time spent in the simulation
through in— game player performance statistics.

Through the cell’s dry runs, the team becomes comfortable with their roles during the
mission, thereby reducing the margin of error.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 37

 

