 

Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

° Each member knows their roles and what their colleagues will be doing
simultaneously.

° They practice scenarios that may occur during the mission and determine how to
act.

° They are now less susceptible to surprises.

Through research and in—game simulation, it is determined that maximum impact can be
expected using three bombers in each of four Metro stations —— Metro Center, Gallery
Place, Union Station, Capitol South, and L’Enfant —— at 8:45 AM on a Tuesday in late—
March. Each cell member knows their responsibilities and the timing on their
movements.

 

Knowledge-Based Games

Knowledge-based games are a proven success in teaching. Many organizations have
begun to develop Video and other games to teach children about their work or mission.

0 The United Nations, for example, provides Food Force for free via the UN
website. The game aims to teach children about global hunger and food aid.

° Likewise, Middle Eastern groups have attempted to inﬂuence children via games.
The Islamic Fun suite contains the game The Resistance which carries the
following introduction to the game, “You are a farmer in South Lebanon who has
joined the Islamic Resistance to defend your land and family from the invading
Zionists.”

° Other popular titles include Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego ?, Blue’s
Clues: Blues Big Musical and, one of the first educational Video games, Oregon
Trail.

 

Knowledge-Based Game Scenario
This scenario is ﬁctitious. Al—Aqsa Martyrs Brigade would like to teach children about
the Israeli—Palestinian conflict. The group knows that vivid, interactive games are likely
to entertain children while providing an effective education platform. They develop a
game from the Palestinian point—of—view that distorts history by embellishing atrocities
committed by the Israelis, and minimizing culpability of the Palestinians.

° In order to win the game, the young player must answer questions correctly to

save his family and friends.

° A correct answer, as deemed by the sympathizer, gets the child one step closer to
Paradise.

° During each scenario, there are questions about religion, Israeli beliefs and moral
responsibility [see below].

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 38

 

 

