Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

III-game Quiz Example:

The Israeli military on the Palestinian border is positioned there to:

A. Provide protection for all non—military citizens crossing the border between Israel and
Palestine regardless of nationality or religion.

B. Protect all Christian non—military citizens.

C. Protect all Christians and kill Muslims, including women and children to
prevent the creation of more Islamic people and to slowly claim land that is not
theirs.

 

Interactive Story Example:

Israeli soldiers came to your home last night. You saw the men coming in time to take
cover behind the house with your three—year—old brother. Your mother, older sister, and
father Where brutally attacked and killed. You and your younger brother survived the
attack.

Later, your neighbor’s brother has come to pay his respects. He is a member of the
Islamic resistance and offers to help you avenge the murder of your family. He assures
you that if you choose to join the jihad you Will have the opportunity to fight and should
you sustain any injury, he promises you that your youngest brother Will be cared for.
Time is of the essence, however, and the freedom fighters are expecting your decision
tonight. What Will you do?

Your options are:

A. Refuse their offer.

You thank the freedom ﬁghter, but resign yourself to live under Israeli occupation. Your
father would understand. You are trying to protect yourself and younger brother,
although you know that the Israeli forces could come again at any time.

B. Not respond to the offer.

Your family has already been destroyed and you do not want to worsen the situation.
Beware, however, as your failure to join the Islamic resistance essentially means that you
are complying with the Zionist occupation.

C. Join the resistance and offer yourself as a suicide bomber.

You begin training today.
You volunteer to serve the jihad as a suicide bomber. This is an honorable post. You will
be rewarded and your family will be protected. You will be a hero in your community.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 39

