Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

When you carry out your mission, you cause the death of the Israeli soldiers who killed
your mother, sister and father. You are celebrated as a hero throughout the
neighborhood. Your brother is taken care of and respected for your sacrifice.

 

Strategy Games

Strategy games focus on careful planning and resource management in order to
achieve victory. Many of these games can be likened to traditional tabletop war games,
occurring in either a tum-based or real-time situation.

° Real time strategy games (RTS) have become the predominant game in this genre.

° Popular titles in tum-based or real-time strategy games include Starcraft,
Warcraft, Civilization, Master of Orion, Command & Conquer, and Age of
Empires.

Traditionally, strategy games have focused on military movements. In today’s
information technology environment however, strategy games teach business
management and negotiation skills.

° Terrorists might use strategy games to teach new leaders fundraising techniques,
mission planning, and how to manipulate cell members into complete missions.

 

 

Strategy Game Scenario

This scenario is fictitious. A terrorist group would like to engage younger players and
distribute propaganda to a segment of the population that will be important in future Jihad
efforts. The group would like to also determine if there are any players that fit the profile
of their recruiters.

The terrorist group develops a game that simulates the duties and camaraderie of their
Islamic brothers in Jihad. The terrorists build into the game lodging, rank and file roles,
benefits of those roles and a weapons structure that allows players with higher status to
have better weapons. The strategy in the game is to not only overcome their enemies (in
this case a corrupt official police force) but they must also become leaders of their
brothers to obtain better weapons and benefits within the group. The setting of the game
begins when a young, strong Iraqi sees neighbor after neighbor murdered by corrupt
police.

° The player must build citizen armies to counter the corrupt police forces.
° The player must train his troops, as well as raise funds.
° He must avoid the crowd turning against him.

The game is distributed for free to reach the greatest number of people and can be played
amongst other members by connecting to the Internet. Members of the terrorist group

 

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 40

