Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Chapter Introduction

Emerging trends in the gaming space will have profound effects on the industry,
fueling its expansion into previously untapped markets and affording terrorist
organizations greater opportunities to reach and target core audiences.

Emerging trends in the gaming industry will be used to the advantage of groups
committed to terrorizing societies to achieve their goals. H Terrorist
organizations have already demonstrated the capability to utilize technological
advances to enhance their operations as demonstrated with their extensive use of
the Internetbm. As emerging trends come to fruition in burgeoning markets, it is
only a matter of time before terrorist organizations further exploit these trends in
the gaming space for similar purposes.

The multiple uses of an expanded game space will be numerous, and from the
terrorists’ perspective, invaluableb‘v". Terrorist will be able use the enhanced
game space to conduct a range of operations, from supporting strategic
propaganda and inﬂuence activities, to more highly instrumental uses such as
communication, fundraising and recruitment. §§

Emerging trends in the gaming industry will continue to drive culture, technology
and creativity in both mature and previously untapped markets. They are expected to
serve as a catalyst for the gaming industry’s rapid growth across age, gender and
cultural boundaries.

Many emerging gaming trends are enabled by the spread of existing
technologies and the advent of new ones. Three major technological drivers
propelling the gaming industry into untapped markets will be the diffusion of
broadband Internet access, the maturation of the mobile platform, and the fruition
of reliable wireless communication networks such as Third Generation (3G) and
Fourth Generation (4G) networks. Collectively, these trends will improve access
and make online gaming in nascent markets a reality.

Emerging trends will continue to spur the gaming space ensuring its growth
continues at near exponential rates.*** Evidence of trends spurring the gaming
industry can be seen in the growth of virtual worlds like Lineage, Everquest,
World of Warcraft (WOW) and Second Life. Hugely popular, these virtual worlds
have evolved due to technological advances such as the evolution in Computing
Processing Units (CPUs) and Graphics Processing Units (GPUs), peak throughput

 

H Gabriel Weimann makes this point regarding the Internet but his argument can be extended to the game
space due to many similarities between the two mediums. For more information, see Weimann, Gabriel.
"www.terror.net: How Modern Terrorism Uses the Internet" United States Institute of Peace, Special
Report 116.

m Onljne gaming has been growing at rapid rates in both mature and nascent markets, in particular within
Virtual Worlds. Evidence can be seen in both the revenue generated by the gaming industry and the sheer
number of gamers which cross cultural, gender and age boundaries.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 43

