Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

power, the spread of broadband Internet access, and the integration of
communication technologies. Newer technologies and emerging consumer usage
patterns are expected to continue to spur growth in the future within the gaming
sector.

° Changes have occurred at a rapid pace within the gaming space and emerging
trends indicate more changes are forthcomingb‘v'". Many trends will change how
players interact with games and with each other through games as trends come to
fruition. As interactive gaming changed how an entire generation saw itself in
relation to the world in mature markets, it will also likely change how generations
see themselves in nascent markets.lll

- The overall impact of emerging trends in burgeoning markets is expected to
mirror the experience of more mature markets, though marked differences will
exist. Gaming will become a powerful medium, playing an important host to a
range of ordinary human affairs, particularly in the online space. it: Like the
United States and Asian experience, the line between the virtual and real world
will blur for some and become non-existent for otherslm. However, noticeable
differences will emerge, particularly in consumer usage patterns such as gaming
platforms (i.e. personal computers, consoles, and handheld devices) and access
methods (i.e. Internet Cafes and wireless networks) due to the limitations
associated with existing infrastructures and costs of deploying new ones.§§§

 

W The impact of interactive gaming has profound effects beyond the game space. Evidence can be seen in
how gamers learn, problem solve and relate to the real world. For more information on this trend see Will
Wright's piece "Dream Machines." Wired Magazine, Issue 14.04 April 2006 and the following Cyber-
Inﬂuence Conference Series Proceedings - Perspectives from the Entertainment Industry, SAIC, May 2005;
Insights from Silicon Valley: Enabling Technologies. SAIC, March 2006; and Insights from Entertainment
and Gaming: The Convergence of Narrative, Imagery, and Cyber Media, SAIC, September 2006.

m For an excellent analysis on the range of activities that are occurring in online gaming, particularly
virtual worlds, see Castronova, Edward. Synthetic Worlds: The Business and Culture of Online Games.

W Market analysts predict strong growth in new regions on different gaming platforms and access methods
in new markets due to existing infrastructures. For more information see, “Global Entertainment and Media
Outlook: 2006-2010. Price Water House Coopers and The 2006 Middle East Telecoms, Mobile and
Broadband Report.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 44

