Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

and a notable number of players originating from Iran and kit Tduring the height

of media coverage on Middle East networks like Al-Jazeera.

 

Exhibit 4-2: Kama Wars Game Play Distribution in EMEA Markets

Third Generation (3G) and Beyond

The emergence of reliable broadband wireless technology will make mobile gaming
a reality in mature and nascent markets in the mid to long term.

The movement to 3G networks will facilitate the development of 3D mobile
games and spur demand due to increased access speeds of up to 2 Megabits per
second (Mbps).lxxv While more mature markets in Europe and parts of Asia have
well developed 3G networks, many parts of the world are more limited with 3G
just in its infancy or stuck on older 2G networksim

Similar to the connection between the growth of online games and broadband
Internet access, the maturation of wireless gaming will depend on the spread and
development of high speed wireless networks. Based on anticipated growth in the
wireless sector, EMEA markets are expected to see the biggest growth in wireless
gaming. Market analysts project wireless gaming in the EMEA to expand from
792 million in 2005 to 2.7 billion in 2010, representing a compound annual
growth rate of 27.9%.IXXVI

 

WT Kuma Wars is made by Kuma Games, who develops free, episodic games for their users based on
recent real world events. Kuma is easily able to produce immersive, realistic games in little time with the
assistance of the Valve’s Source game engine, modular software that provides enhancements in several
key areas of game production, including character animation, advanced AI and real-world physics.

“H For an overview of wireless generations, see CNET Review: Quick Guide to 3G Cell Phone Service.
CNET. Available for download at . For more information, also see Mr. Huang's article, "Evolution from 3G
to 4G and Beyond (5G)." June 2005. Available for download at
http://www.daniweb.com/techtalkforums/post180324.html#post180324

 

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 47

