Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

developing and rolling out a common
standard with a goal. of deploying a 4G
network by 2010. 1“”

Wireless gaming will be more predominant than ‘wired’ gaming in some markets
where existing cellular infrastructures are more prevalent.

Wireless networks are faster and cheaper in Europe and Asia where cellular
networks are more abundant than fixed line infrastructures, leading many
industry experts to project significant growth in the wireless gaming industry.
As such many countries will build upon existing cellular networks taking market
share from declining fixed-line markets. This trend can already be seen in parts
of the Middle East, especially in Saudi Arabia, Oman and Qatar where they are
testinglx3G services following its successful introduction in Bahrain and

Israel. xx

The emergence of Wi-Fi hot spots are also an important development for
gaming. In many parts of the world, cities are deploying Wi-Fi hot spots to
increase network connectivity and in some instances gaming companies are
partnering with telecommunications firms. For instance, Nintendo recently
partnered with BT Openzone to establish hot spots in the UK to enable mobile

- lxxxi

The Maturation of the Mobile Platform

Rapid growth of the mobile market in mature and emerging regions will expand the
reach of the mobile gaming space exponentially.

Strong growth is expected in the mobile sector with expansion rates ranging
from 30% to 35% a yeah-bringing the industry’s value to an estimated worth of
US$6 billion by 2010.lxxxu Rapid growth in the mobile industry will continue to
be spurred by the explosion of ‘data’ applications (i.e. text, ring tones, streaming
video) to include gaming and the further convergence of these applications,
transforming the cellular phone into an integrated mobile platform moving well
beyond voice. mm Such growth will expand both the mobile market and in turn
the mobile gaming space.

Gaming has already become a major player in the mobile space competing with

other popular data applications. Last year marked the first time consumers spent
more downloading games than ringtones, a significant milestone considering the
popularity of ringtones worldwide.IXXXIV

The expansion of the gaming industry in emerging and new regions is also
. . . lxxxv
expected to dr1ve the growth of the moblle gammg sector.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 49

