Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

The penetration of next generation game enabled devices with internet access
capabilities and enhanced graphics will facilitate the growth of wireless gaming.

The number of game enabled devices is expected to grow rapidly from about 40%
of the 2 billion devices available worldwide today to about 97% of all mobile
devices sold in 2008.IXXXVI There were 600 million mobile devices sold last year
alone compared to 300 million consoles sold in the 25-year history of the
Videogame industry.lxxxvu

The increasing sophistication of new handsets will make for a more

enjoyable and immersive gaming experience, thereby expanding ,

wireless gaming. Currently, most mobile games are simple and are 7
similar to games developed for consoles a decade ago because the , i“ ,
graphics capabilities of handsets are still relatively limited. However, I, 7 " K.
next generation devices are now being designed and marketed to " , * r ,1, (f2)
highlight their gaming features like the Samsung SGH-B450.lxxxvm 7 F’ ’1'.

In addition to mobile phones, portable gaming consoles like the {9552;21:ch B450
Nintendo DS (Dual Screen) and Sony PSP will increasingly

become an important part of the mobile gaming space.

The expansion of the game space will be driven in a large part by mobile gaming.

A huge latent demand exists for mobile gaming with only 5 % of people who own
a phone ever downloading a game and 50% actually ever playing a game.lxxm
Such percentages suggest a huge untapped market segment that is very
encouraging to the future of mobile gaming given the number of subscribers and
handsets available worldwide.

Evidence of the how the game space will be driven by mobile gaming occurred
recently when for the first time more games were played on mobile devices than
on console games in 2006.xc In terms of revenues, of course, console gaming is far
greater, but the importance of this event in mobile gaming cannot be
underestimated given that the gaming industry is largely driven by console
gaming. More games being played on mobile devices represents a shift in what
factors will drive the expansion of the game space in years to come.

The significant difference in the mobile gaming market, as oppose to the personal
computer and console sectors, is that the ‘would be gamer’ already owns and
carries the platform on which they can play the game. Mobile devices also tend to
be more intimate devices to their users, always available and always on.XCI As
newer, more advanced technologies are deployed, market analysts expect
traditional sectors like the personal computer to lose ground to mobile
platforms.xcu

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 50

