Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

The availability and range of mobile gaming content will increase in the coming
years.

0 The industry is now moving away from preloaded games to models where games
are required to be downloaded over the Internet from carriers and third party
providers. Such a move should enable more third party mobile game providers
and distributors to enter the market space, increasing both the availability and
range of mobile gaming content. Moreover, it will allow organizations to directly
market mobile games to end users.

0 An examination of more mature markets suggests that gaming will move beyond
casual gaming leading to further growth in the industry. Japan represents the
current benchmark where many users are playing more than just casual games on
their mobile devices.xcm An exceptionally large number of games are aimed at
what would be considered console and hard core gamers, making the mobile
phone in Japan as much a games platform as any console.XCIV

° Some gaming experts suggest that multiplayer games are the next big thing in
mobile gaming as they attempt to recreate Virtual worlds for mobile devices,
while other analysts suggest that the next big breakout game would be a mobile
game that leverages the power of mobile networks and devices integrating
features like voice and GPS into the game.xcv While industry leaders have
different views, all are searching for the mobile game that will drive the mobile
platform similar to how the Halo, Madden Football and Zelda franchises drove .
sales of the Xbox, Play Station 2 and Nintendo gaming consoles respectively.XCVI
Such a game would prove invaluable to expanding the mobile gaming market.

0 The skills required for a successful mobile game programmer are not
insurmountable and include knowledge of Java and J 2ME, BREW, Symbian OS,
OpenGL ES, and/or Mophun. While a skilled programmer would currently be
required to develop a mobile game using one of the aforementioned programs, the
introduction of middleware or game modification software in the coming years
should enable a broader group to create compelling content for mobile games.

The Rise of Virtual Worlds

Virtual worlds will provide the greatest opportunities to support terrorist operations,
particularl§y in the areas of communication, coordination, recruitment and fundraising
activities.§ §§ As virtual worlds expand, terrorist opportunities to exploit them will also
increase.

 

§§§§ For a more in depth look at the various ways terrorist organizations can exploit the game space see an
earlier paper produced in this series "Exploitation and Function of Games: An Interactive Inﬂuence
Medium." SAIC. September, 2006.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 51

