Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Virtual worlds will become a powerful medium in nascent markets mirroring
adoption and consumption patterns in more mature markets. As Virtual worlds
expand, they will increasingly play an important host to a range of ordinary
human affairs in which participants may communicate, coordinate, socialize,
train, learn, simulate, experiment, build, proselytize and even barter virtual
goods.xcvn

The emergence of virtual worlds has significant consequences because events
within the virtual space at times cannot be isolated from the real world, leading some to
suggest that the line between the “virtual” and “real” world is blurring, even becoming
non-existent. This phenomenon can best be seen in a virtual world’s social interactions,
experimental learning and value of virtual goods and services.

Social interactions occurring in Virtual worlds are not simulations of human
interactions, rather they are human interactions merely extended in a new
forum.***** Virtual worlds are places people identify with and where real and
lasting bonds form, for many becoming an important source of material and
emotional well being. Avatars become a representation of ones identify and
immersion into the virtual world increases the identity that one feels to the Virtual
self. This connection with the virtual world invokes many of the same
psychological triggers as in the real worldxcvm. For instance, reciprocity and liking
extensively come into play in relationship formationxcm and the process of
developing ones avatar seems to invoke exactly the same risk and reward
structures in the brain that are invoked by personal development in the real
world.c As virtual worlds become more immersive and expand into newer
markets, the number of gamers who identify with and form relationships within
these spaces will expand.

The expansion of Virtual worlds will provide a space for experimental learning to
develop knowledge or hone a particular skill set with practical applicability in the
real world. For instance, becoming an effective leader of a guild amounts to a
“total-immersion” course in leadership — guild leaders are required to be adept at
many skills to include “attracting, evaluating and recruiting new members;
creating apprenticeship programs; orchestrating group strategy; and adjudicating
disputes.”Cl Absent the Virtual surroundings, these skills are prerequisites to
managing and leading any organization.cu

Virtual goods, services and currencies have real world value exceeding US$100
million globally. Trades occur in games among players, between players and the
preset game vendors, and on third party sites like E-Bay, IGE and numerous other
sites. Current estimates indicate that a large demand for intangible goods exists
within the digital world valued in the range of US$1 - $2 billion making the value
of virtual goods quite real. For instance, a World of Warcraft (WOW) gold piece is

 

*****

Edward Castronova originally makes this point in regards to communication occurring the virtual
space, however, it is appropriate to extend his argument to all forms of social interaction that occur within
virtual worlds.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 52

