Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Moore’slaw with many worlds exceeding 100,000 subscribers and some even one
million.Clv

The diffusion of newer CPUs and GPUs coupled with the expansion of broadband
Internet access in emerging markets will fuel continued growth, particularly in
virtual worlds. Projections indicate rapid growth in virtual worlds during the
coming years with more than 10 million online game players in the US.
(approximately the size of New York City) and 30 million gamers worldwide
(approximately the size of Shanghai, Bombay and Karachi combined).cv The
biggest market for Virtual worlds remains Asia closely followed by the United
States; however, it is only a matter of time before other markets become more
active in online gaming.

The expansion of Virtual worlds and the growth rate of its populations lead some
to suggest that virtual worlds may soon become the primary venue for all online
activity.CVI The immersive, persistent and interactive characteristics of virtual
worlds would enable communication, socialization, and coordination in more
effective ways then other mediums.

The Explosion of User Generated Content

User generated content will emerge as a driving force in the gaming space. It will
be enabled by the increased availability of software products and programming
features, lowering the barrier of entry for users to alter, modify and create games.

The growing availability of middleware or modification programs enable
individuals to modify content (partial conversion) or create an entirely new game
(a total conversion). Popular middleware products include 3D world building
packages such as Genesis 3D, Quake, Unreal, and Half-Life; multiplayer
adventure games like Aurora Toolkit; and systems for handling massively
multiplayer games like BigWorld, Butterﬂy.net, and Terazona. These middleware
products have been used to create successful games like Counterstrike (Half-Life)
and America’s Army (Unreal); more dubious games have also been created such
as Ethnic Cleansing (Genesis 3D), Under Ash and Under Siege (Genesis 3D) and
Special Force (Genesis 3D).

Third party software products are available and can be purchased for a marginal
cost, allowing users to create a fully-customizable and easy to design game.
Preloaded design packages allow a user to click and select from a multitude of
gaming scenarios to design their own game. Many of these types of packages are
simulation packages designed to train users on given subjects. One such package
offered by Mosbe enables a user to create a simulation to provide a platform
strategy development, experimentation, and rehearsal. The package includes
preloaded military, civilian, and environmental settings in Iraq, Syria, and the

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 54

