Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Second Life Case Study: Content Generation as a Driving Force “H“

 

 

° Second Life’s content creation engine and LSL feature allows residents to create virtually
anything, protected by very real intellectual property rights. These tools and subsequent
intellectual property protections have spurred the growth of a goods and services industry
including entrepreneurs (e.g. real estate moguls), artisans (e.g. architects and fashion
designers) and professional services (e.g. notary public), stimulating an economy
generating nearly $5 million in trade between residents every month. The Second Life’s
content creation engine and LSL features also enable residents to be creative and have fun
with other residents. One of the more notable examples of unique content is the
abductions of residents by aliens whereby abductees receive a T-shirt proclaiming “I was
abducted by Aliens.”

° Second Life enjoys 90,000 hours of use per day, with approximately 25% of that time
spent creating. That equates to 11 user/years per day, which would require a 4,100-
member content development team costing $40 million per year. In a given week, 5,000
distinct residents wrote original scripts (15%), representing 2.5 million lines of source
code.

° Second Life allows residents to promulgate any Uniform Resource Locator (URL) audio
or video stream to local communities in Second Life. Second Life also permits users to
export XML data from the game to external web sites. Together, this functionality lets
users stream “real” events into the virtual world and “virtual” events into the real word.

 

Advances in Digital Rendering

Advances in digital rendering are forthcoming with improvements in Graphics
Processing Units (GPUs) and rendering algorithms that will enable game designers to
create more life like images and experiences, further increasing the immersion of
users.

° Existing GPUs are extremely powerful in terms of computing power enabling
game designers to render life like images in games. Currently, low end GPUs
surpass high end CPUs by at least two to five times in a wide variety of
computing tasks. GPUs peak throughput power also is growing by a factor of two

 

******

Second Life (abbreviated to SL) is an Internet-based virtual world which came to international
attention via mainstream news media in late 2006 and early 2007. Developed by Linden Lab, a
downloadable client program enables users to interact with each other through motional avatars, providing
an advanced level of a social network service combined with general aspects of a metaverse. While SL is
sometimes referred to as a game, in general it does not have points, scores, winners or losers, levels, an
end-strategy, or most of the other characteristics of games. Users, often called "residents", can visit this
virtual world almost as if it were a real place. They explore, meet other residents, socialize, participate in
individual and group activities, and buy items (virtual property) and services from one another. As they
spend more time in the world, they learn new skills and mature socially, learning the culture and manners
of a virtual environment. The excerpt on Second Life was extracted from the Insights from Silicon Valley:
Enabling Technologies Conference Proceedings.

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 56

 

