Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

efforts are moving beyond vibrating gaming controllers and into truly immersive
sensory devices.

° Nintendo has been at the forefront of major hardware manufactures and
publishers in implementing haptics. Nintendogs is a popular game that elicits
emotion through its advanced voice and touch recognition software, helping to
create a strong emotional bond with the Virtual pets. Users must talk and touch the
dog to elicit a response from the Virtual pet. Game designer Hideki Konno states,
“It is one thing to type in a name and it is an entirely different emotional response
to call and see the puppy turn its head and run over to greet you.”cx Nintendogs
has been an international phenomenon selling more than 4 million units
worldwide. Also, the Wii, Nintendo’s newest gaming console, offers advanced
interaction though wireless remotes where users must use the remote like they
would use the item in the game. For instance, tennis requires the user to swing at
the ball using different swings and techniques. The introduction of the Wii has
taken interactive gaming to a whole other level of immersion.

° Future devices employing haptics are not far off with some being marketed in the
near term. One device by Novint Technologies, expected to debut later this year,
allows the user to feel weight, shape, texture, dimension, dynamics, 3-D motion,
and force effects.§§§§§§ Another product lets users interact physically with Virtual
objects. For instance, by using a sensor-equipped glove and a force-reﬂecting
exoskeleton, ou could literally feel the shape, texture and weight of an onscreen
3-D object.“ **** Such devices are used now for virtual modeling, medicine and
the military, but as costs decrease, haptic interfaces could become more widely

available in the gaming space increasing immersion tenfold.

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit 4-8: Haptic Devices by Immersion 3D

 

mm For more information on Haptic devices by Novint, see their webpage at hgpzllwwwnovintcom/
For more information on Haptic devices being developed by Immersion 3D, see their website at

hgpsllwwwjmmersioncom

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 58

