Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Countering In-Game Propaganda

Countering extremist propaganda in the game space can be achieved in part by
being an active game player. Establishing an in-game presence allows for Virtual
interfacing, information exchanges, and developing inﬂuential relationships with both
adversaries and allies. In-game interaction also can help shape real-life attitudes and
perceptions.

° Establishing an in-game presence would enable identification of inﬂuential
players, their guilds and other common interest groups. These relationships can
be exploited to facilitate “viral” message spread or in-game dialogue for
counterpropaganda purposes.

° Establishing an in-game presence also would enable identification of important
propaganda efforts in the game space. Identification of propaganda allows for
working with the game producer to eliminate harmful or misleading information
from the game space and/or for developing a counterpropaganda campaign.

° Establishing an in-game presence would aid the determination of optimal
message placement areas — cued by where propaganda is surfacing and how it
is spreading in-game. For example, in some games there are large bulletin
boards or other communication areas that are exploited.

° In-game assets might form partnerships with “celebrity” avatars or popular game
design companies for in-game public service announcements such as “anti-
Violence” campaigns. Generating in-game public service announcements backed
by game producers, NGOs or other public interest groups is a popular
phenomenon in some game spaces. For example, the Omidyar Network currently
sponsors the Camp Darfur campaign, which is run on the Better World Island in
Second Life. The purpose of the campaign is to educate players on the crisis in
Sudan.CXI

   

Exhibit 5-2: Snapshot of Camp Darfur, sponsored by the Omidyar Network, in Second Life.cxii

 
 

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 62

