Games: A Look at Emerging Trends, Uses, Threats and Opportunities in Inﬂuence Activities

Competing for Players with New Games

Another opportunity to focus IC counterterrorism efforts in the game space is new
game or modified game development to compete with extremist groups operating in the
game space. Working with commercial partners, students, and others in the game
space to develop a competitive game and attract the target audience would aid this

effort.

° Market research could provide valuable insights into the interests and habits of
game players from a particular target audience. Using focus groups throughout
the game production cycle also would help to identify the strengths and
weaknesses of the story, graphics, and game play.

° Partnerships with gaming industry leaders and a gaming advisory board might
help the IC direct the development of new games with the best chance for
success. An advisory board might be comprised of experts from a variety of
academic disciplines and commercial industries, including public diplomacy,
Silicon Valley, Venture capitalism, NGOs, international relations, game
development, and celebrity game players.

° Student groups also could fuel new game development. Many colleges and
universities now host programs that focus on game design and production. Asset-
sponsored scholarships and incentives could be used to encourage students to
develop appropriately-themed game designs. For example, each year the
University of Southern California (USC) sponsors a Video game design contest in
which students compete for a $25,000 grand prize. Students are asked to develop
games that could be used for public diplomacy purposes.

° Finally, it is important to highlight that modifying games (or “modding”) is a
popular and cost effective way to produce new games or additional “chapters”
to existing games. Many companies allow the codes of their popular titles to
surface on the Internet because modding tends to increase a game’s shelf life and
provides the original game producer time to build a new quality product. An
organization can mod a game in-house or encourage a member of the modding
community to make mods independently.

 

Exhibit 5-3: USC promotes diplomacy via new media including games.cxiii

FOUO - Not for Public Distribution
Page 63

