28.

30.

31.

{SIISUIREL TO USA.
FVEY} Ant 1 familiar
with reverse targeting
procedures in order to
prevent reverse targeting?

' . {'Si’r’REL TO USA.

FVEY} Highlights of
Targeting and
Minimization Procedures

(SHSIHREL TO USA.
FVEY} Do I have a
reasonable belief that the
target is outside the
United States?I

{Uf/FOUO) Analyst has
an obligation to
continually verify the
location ofthe target —
verify and re-verify

TOP SECRET/lSU/NOFORN

particular type of targeting and be familiar with them. Those are
the rules of the road that the court and the AG and the DN1 and our
office and SIGINT Director and everybody else expect you to
understand. What else do you need to do?

(Sf/Sli/REL T0 USA, FVEY) Know Reverse Targeting
Issues

(Sf/SI/IREL TO USA, FVEY) The last thing is you have got to be
familiar with is the reverse targeting procedures. Congress is very
concerned that if they made it easier for the Intelligence
Cenimunity to target people reasonably believed to be outside of
the United States, we’d turn right around and use that as a means of
targeting people who are inside the United States but communicate
with them. So be familiar with the procedures that govern that and
prevent that from happening.

(SHREL T0 USA, FVEY) Highlights of Targeting and
Minimization Procedures

(SHREL TO USA, FVEY) Now, the good news for you all is that
I’m not going to sit down in front of you all and read a set of
minimization procedures to you. You should read thetn and be
familiar with them; I instead am going to go through the highlights
that you need to be familiar with, which I ’ve already said.
Highlights of the targeting procedures as well as the minimization
procedures. . .

(SIISWREL TO USA, FVEY) Verify and re-verify your
Target’s Status and Location

(TSHSIHREL TO USA, FVEY'} The first thing: targeting. You have
to verify your target’s status as a non-US person and their location.
At all times, you have to do it initially. Do you have a reasonable
belief that your target is a non-US person outside the United States?
And you have to do it always. Some things can change. People
move around. They move into and out of the United States. The
reason we have this continuing obligation - this is why we have
post- targeting analysis done by a lot of NSA people who look at
things like HLR and VLR registrations of phones. If. all of the
sudden, a phone that you‘re targeting registers in a cell inside the
United States, you no longer have a reasonable belief your target is
outside of the United States. So there are a lot of things like that
done — [P [Internet Protocol] look-ups done for collection of email
addresses... that sort of thing. These tools are all there to help you
— these organizations are there to help you - but in the end, the
responsibility remains with the analyst. Things get through filters;

TOP SECRET/ISI/INOFORN "

