PREFACE ({3}

(TS-iiSl-i-‘REL TD USA. Elk-EY-TISA) This SHEEN—f assessment examines access as one element in the process of Islamic radicalization in order
to identify vulnerabilities. Using six prominent. globally—resonating foreign radicalizers as exemplars. this report focuses on the means they use to
reach their intended audience and reveals potential vulnerabilities for exploitation. It should be read in conjunction with NSA report ERA-501518-
Q . which identiﬁes "vulnerabilities of authority.

[TS:".-"SI-’.-'REL TO USA. FUEY} ﬁlformaﬁon herein is based largely on Sunni extremist communications and includes disseminated SIGINT as
well as collateral available between January 2008 and September 2012. The SIGINT information is from primary sources wiﬂl direct access and is
generally considered reliable. Greater speciﬁcity on the SIGINT sourcing is provided in the text. included in the appendix are charts on ways that
access has been aﬂ'ected and countermeasures taken; a comparison of radicalizers' access mechanisms; and a matrix that compares their authority.
argument. countries where they resonate. and their personal vulnerabilities.

(TS.-"-"SL".-'REL TD USA. FVEY} Examining how the six radicalizers establish and maintain access with diﬁ‘erent pools of people susceptible to
their message -- and their perceptions of the diﬁiculties in doing so -- suggests that there are vulnerabilities that can be exploited in terms of this
access. and emerging radicalizers may be vulnerable on this point as well. Focusing on access reveals potential sulnerabilities that could be even
more effecﬁvely exploited when used in combination wiﬂl vulnerabilities of character or credibility. or both. of die message in order to shape die
perception of the messenger as well as that of his followers.

(ES.-".-"SI.-"-'REL TO USA. F1-’EY.-TISA) Six globally-resonaﬁng. radicalizers are used as exemplars in this assessment. The ﬁrst three listed target
an English-speaking audience. while the second three target an Arabic-speal-dng audience.

- names redacted

(f8.-"_-"SI.-"-"REL TU USA. F‘s-’EY-TISA) Dne indicator of the potential eﬁ‘ectiveness of these radicalizers is the extent of their resonance. i.e.. the
number and locations of indisiduals who respond to a radicalizer's message by contacting him using his publicly —l-cnov.'n contact information. 5;
signiﬁcant proportion of the audience associated with the speciﬁed English- language radicalizers 1s located in Pakistan. y et none of these radicalizers
appear to hay e any communicants in common. In addition. - - -

    

