 

 

UNITED STATES FOREIGN
INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE COURT
Washington, D.C.

 

Honorable Reggie B. Walton
Presiding Iudge

July 29, 2013

Honorable Patrick J. Leahy
Chairman

Committee on the Judiciary
United States Senate
Washington, DC 20510

Dear Mr. Chairman:

I am writing in response to your letter of July 18, 2013, in which you posed several
questions about the operations of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (the Court). As you
requested, we are providing unclassified responses. We would note that, as a general matter, the
Court’s practices have evolved over time. Various developments in the last several years -—
including statutory changes, changes in the size of the Court and its staff, the adoption of new
Rules of Procedure in 2010, and the relocation of the Court’s facilities from the Department of
Justice headquarters to a secure space in the federal courthouse in 2009 — have affected some of
these practices. The responses below reﬂect the current practices of the Court.

1. Describe the typical process that the Court follows when it considers the following: (I)
an application for an order for electronic surveillance under Title I of F ISA ,‘ (2) an
application for an order for access to business records under Title VofFISA; and (3)
submissions ﬁom the government under Section 702 of F ISA . As to applications for
orders for access to business records under Title VofFISA, please describe whether the
process for the Court ’5 consideration of such applications is different when considering
requests for balk collection ofphone call metadato records, as recently declassified by
the Director ofNational Intelligence.

Each week, one of the eleven district court judges who comprise the Court is on duty in
Washington. As discussed below, most of the Court’s work is handled by the duty judge with the
assistance of attorneys and clerk’s ofﬁce personnel who staff the Court. Some of the Court’s
more complex or time—consuming matters are handled by judges outside of the duty-week
system, at the discretion of the Presiding Judge. In either case, matters before the Court are
thoroughly reviewed and analyzed by the Court.

Rule 9(a) of the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court Rules of Procedure

 

 

