 

Honorable Patrick J. Leahy
July 29, 2013
Page 10

court ordered brieﬁng on the matter. On July 18, 2013, the Court granted the motions of (l) a
coalition of news media organizations and (2) the First Amendment Coalition, the ACLU, the
Center for Democracy and Technology, the EFF, and Techfreedom for leave to ﬁle amicus curiae
briefs in this case. The matter is pending before the Court. All documents ﬁled in this docket
are available at http:fiwwwuscourts.gov/uscourts/courts/ﬁsc/index.html under Case No. Misc.
l3-03.

On June 19, 2013, Microsoft Corporation ﬁled a motion in this Court for declaratory
judgment or other appropriate relief authorizing disclosure of aggregate data regarding any FISA
orders it has received. The court ordered brieﬁng on the matter. On July 18, 2013, the Court
granted the motions of (l) a coalition of news media organizations and (2) the First Amendment
Coalition, the ACLU, the Center for Democracy and Technology, the EFF, and Techfreedom for
leave to ﬁle amicus curiae briefs in this case. The matter is pending before the Court. All
documents ﬁled in this docket are available at
http://www.uscourts.gov/uscourts/courts/ﬁsc/index.html under Case No. Misc. 13-04.

4. Please describe the process used by the Court to consider and resolve any instances
where the government notifies the Court of compliance concerns with any of the FISA
authorities.

Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 1803(h), the Court is empowered to ensure compliance with its
orders. Additionally, Rule 13(a) of the FISC Rules of Procedure requires the government to ﬁle
a written notice with the Court immediately upon discovering that any authority or approval
granted by the Court has been implemented (either by government officials or others operating
pursuant to Court order) in a manner that did not comply with the Court’s authorization or
approval or with applicable law. Rule 13(a) also requires the government to notify the Court in
writing of the facts and circumstances relevant to the non~compliance; any modiﬁcations the
government has made or proposes to make in how it will implement any authority or approval
granted by the Court; and how the government proposes to dispose of or treat any information
obtained as a result of the non-compliance.

When the government discovers instances of non-compliance, it ﬁles notices with the
Court as required by Rule 13(a). Because the rule requires the government to “immediately
inform the Judge” of a compliance incident, the government typically files a preliminary notice
that provides whatever facts are available at the time an incident is discovered. The legal staff
review these notices as they are received and call signiﬁcant matters to the attention of the
appropriatejudge. In instances in which the non-compliance has not been fully addressed by the
time the preliminary Rule 13(a) notice is ﬁled, the Court may seek additional information
through telephone calls, meetings, or hearings. Typically, the government will ﬁle a ﬁnal Rule
13(a) notice once the relevant facts are known and any unauthorized collection has been
destroyed. However, judges sometimes issue orders directing the government to take speciﬁc

 

