 

 

Title 1. Scope of Rules; Amendment

Rule 1. Scope of Rules. These rules, which are promulgated pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 1803(g),
govern all proceedings in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (“the Court”). Issues not
addressed in these rules or the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, as amended (“the Act”),
may be resolved under the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure or the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure.

Rule 2. Amendment. Any amendment to these rules must be promulgated in accordance with
28 U.S.C. § 2071.

Title II. National Security Information

Rule 3. National Security Information. In all matters, the Court and its staff shall comply with
the security measures established pursuant to 50 U.S.C. §§ 1803(c), 1822(e), 1861(f)(4), and
1881a(k)(l), as well as Executive Order 13526, “Classiﬁed National Security Information” (or its
successor). Each member of the Court’s staff must possess security clearances at a level
commensurate to the individual’s responsibilities.

Title III. Structure and Powers of the Court

Rule 4. Structure.
(3) Composition. In accordance with 50 U.S.C. § 1803(a), the Court consists of United
States District Court Judges appointed by the Chief Justice of the United States.
(b) Presiding Judge. The Chief Justice designates the “Presiding Judge.”

Rule 5. Authority of the Judges.
(a) Scope of Authority. Each Judge may exercise the authority vested by the Act and
such other authority as is consistent with Article III of the Constitution and other statutes
and laws of the United States, to the extent not inconsistent with the Act.
(1)) Referring Matters to Other Judges. Except for matters involving a denial of an
application for an order, a Judge may refer any matter to another Judge of the Court with
that Judge’s consent. If a Judge directs the government to supplement an application, the
Judge may direct the government to present the renewal of that application to the same
Judge. If a matter is presented to a Judge who is unavailable or whose tenure on the
Court expires while the matter is pending, the Presiding Judge may re—assign the matter.
(c) Supplementation. The Judge before whom a matter is pending may order a party to
furnish any information that the Judge deems necessary.

 

