 

Title IV. Matters Presented to the Court

Rule 6. Means of Requesting Relief from the Court.
(a) Application. The government may, in accordance with 50 U.S.C. §§ 1804, 1823,
1842, 1861, 1881b(b), 1881c(b), or 1881d(a), ﬁle an application for a Court order
(“application”).
(b) Certiﬁcation. The government may, in accordance with 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(g), ﬁle a
certiﬁcation concerning the targeting of non-United States persons reasonably believed to
be located outside the United States (“certiﬁcation”).
(c) Petition. A party may, in accordance with 50 U.S.C. §§ 1861(1) and 1881a(h) and
the Supplemental Procedures in Titles VI and VII of these Rules, ﬁle a petition for review
of a production or nondisclosure order issued under 50 U.S.C. § 1861 or for review or
enforcement of a directive issued under 50 U.S.C. § 1881a (“petition”).
(d) Motion. A party seeking relief, other than pursuant to an application, certiﬁcation, or
petition permitted under the Act and these Rules, must do so by motion (“motion”).

Rule 7. Filing Applications, Certiﬁcations, Petitions, Motions, or Other Papers
(“Submissions”).
(a) Filing. A submission is ﬁled by delivering it to the Clerk or as otherwise directed by
the Clerk in accordance with Rule 7(k).
(b) Original and One Copy. Except as otherwise provided, a signed original and one
copy must be ﬁled with the Clerk.
(c) Form. Unless otherwise ordered, all submissions must be:
(1) on 8V2-by-1 l-inch opaque white paper; and
(2) typed (double-spaced) or reproduced in a manner that produces a clear black
image.
(d) Electronic Filing. The Clerk, when authorized by the Court, may accept and ﬁle
submissions by any reliable, and appropriately secure, electronic means.
(e) Facsimile or Scanned Signature. The Clerk may accept for ﬁling a submission
bearing a facsimile or scanned signature in lieu of the original signature. Upon
acceptance, a submission bearing a facsimile or scanned signature is the original Court
record.
(0 Citations. Each submission must contain citations to pertinent provisions of the Act.
(g) Contents. Each application and certiﬁcation ﬁled by the government must be
approved and certiﬁed in accordance with the Act, and must contain the statements and
other information required by the Act.
(h) Contact Information in Adversarial Proceedings.
(1) Filing by a Party Other Than the Government. A party other than the
government must include in the initial submission the party’s full name, address,
and telephone number, or, if the party is represented by counsel, the full name of
the party and the party’s counsel, as well as counsel’s address, telephone number,
facsimile number, and bar membership information.
(2) Filing by the Government. In an adversarial proceeding, the initial

-2-

 

