 

submission ﬁled by the government must include the full names of the attorneys
representing the United States and their mailing addresses, telephone numbers,
and facsimile numbers.
(i) Information Concerning Security Clearances in Adversarial Proceedings. A party
other than the government must:
(1) state in the initial submission whether the party (or the party’s responsible
ofﬁcers or employees) and counsel for the party hold security clearances;
(2) describe the circumstances in which such clearances were granted; and
(3) identify the federal agencies granting the clearances and the classiﬁcation
levels and compartments involved.
(j) Ex Parte Review. At the request of the government in an adversarial proceeding, the
Judge must review ex parte and in camera any submissions by the government, or
portions thereof, which may include classiﬁed information. Except as otherwise ordered,
if the government ﬁles ex parte a submission that contains classiﬁed information, the
government must ﬁle and serve on the non-govemmental party an unclassiﬁed or
redacted version. The unclassiﬁed or redacted version, at a minimum, must clearly
articulate the govemment’s legal arguments.
(k) Instructions for Delivery to the Court. A party may obtain instructions for making
submissions permitted under the Act and these Rules by contacting the Clerk at (202)
357-6250.

Rule 8. Service.
(a) By a Party Other than the Government. A party other than the government must,
at or before the time of ﬁling a submission permitted under the Act and these Rules, serve
a copy on the government. Instructions for effecting service must be obtained by
contacting the Security and Emergency Planning Staff, United States Department of
Justice, by telephone at (202) 514-2094.
(b) By the Government. At or before the time of ﬁling a submission in an adversarial
proceeding, the government must, subject to Rule 70), serve a copy by hand delivery or
by overnight delivery on counsel for the other party, or, if the party is not represented by
counsel, on the party directly.
(c) Certiﬁcate of Service. A party must include a certiﬁcate of service specifying the
time and manner of service.

Rule 9. Time and Manner of Submission of Applications.
(a) Proposed Applications. Except when an application is being submitted following
an emergency authorization pursuant to 50 U.S.C. §§ 1805(e), 1824(e), 1843, l88lb(d),
or l88lc(d) (“emergency authorization”), or as otherwise permitted by the Court,
proposed applications must be submitted by the government no later than seven days
before the government seeks to have the matter entertained by the Court. Proposed
applications submitted following an emergency authorization must be submitted as soon
after such authorization as is reasonably practicable.
(b) Final Applications. Unless the Court permits otherwise, the ﬁnal application,

-3-

 

