 

We: s -.«..: a. w

including all signatures, approvals, and certiﬁcations required by the Act, must be ﬁled
no later than 10:00 am. Eastern Time on the day the government seeks to have the matter
entertained by the Court.

(e) Proposed Orders. Each proposed application and ﬁnal application submitted to the
Court must include any pertinent proposed orders.

(d) Number of Copies. Notwithstanding Rule 7(b), unless the Court directs otherwise,
only one copy of a proposed application must be submitted and only the original ﬁnal
application must be ﬁled.

(e) Notice of Changes. No later than the time the ﬁnal application is ﬁled, the
government must identify any differences between the ﬁnal application and the proposed
application.

Rule 10. Computation of Time. The following rules apply in computing a time period
speciﬁed by these Rules or by Court order:
(a) Day of the Event Excluded. Exclude the day of the event that triggers the period.
(1)) Compute Time Using Calendar Days. Compute time using calendar days, not
business days.
(c) Include the Last Day. Include the last day of the period; but if the last day is a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the period continues to run until the next day that is
not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.

Rule 11. Notice and Brieﬁng of Novel Issues.

(a) Notice to the Court. If a submission by the government for Court action involves an
issue not previously presented to the Court — including, but not limited to, a novel issue
of technology or law —-— the government must inform the Court in writing of the nature
and signiﬁcance of that issue.
0)) Submission Relating to New Techniques. Prior to requesting authorization to use a
new surveillance or search technique, the government must submit a memorandum to the
Court that:

(1) explains the technique;

(2) describes the circumstances of the likely implementation of the technique;

(3) discusses any legal issues apparently raised; and

(4) describes the proposed minimization procedures to be applied.
At the latest, the memorandum must be submitted as part of the ﬁrst proposed application
or other submission that seeks to employ the new technique.
(c) Novel Implementation. When requesting authorization to use an existing surveillance
or search technique in a novel context, the government must identify and address any new
minimization or other issues in a written submission made, at the latest, as part of the
application or other ﬁling seeking such authorization.
(d) Legal Memorandum. If an application or other request for action raises an issue of
law not previously considered by the Court, the government must ﬁle a memorandum of
law in support of its position on each new issue. At the latest, the memorandum must be

 

