Honorable Patrick J. Leahy
July 29, 2013
Page 2

(F ISC Rules of Procedure)‘ requires that except in certain circumstances (i.e., a submission
pursuant to an emergency authorization under the statute or as otherwise permitted by the Court),
a proposed application must be submitted by the government no later than seven days before the
government seeks to have the matter entertained.2 Upon the Court’s receipt of a proposed
application for an order under F ISA, a member of the Court’s legal staff reviews the application
and evaluates whether it meets the legal requirements under the statute. As part of this
evaluation, a Court attorney will often have one or more telephone conversations with the
government3 to seek additional information and/or raise concerns about the application. A Court
attorney then prepares a written analysis of the application for the duty judge, which includes an
identiﬁcation of any weaknesses, ﬂaws, or other concerns. For example, the attorney may
recommend that the judge consider requiring the addition of information to the application;
imposing special reporting requirements;4 or shortening the requested duration of an
authorization.

The judge then reviews the proposed application, as well as the attomey’s written
analysis.5 The judge typically makes a preliminary determination at that time about what course

 

1 A copy of the F lSC Rules of Procedure is appended hereto as Attachment A. The rules are also
available at http://www.uscourts.gov/uscourts/rules/FISC2010.pdf.

2 A proposed application is also sometimes referred to as a “read copy” and has been referred to
in this manner in at least one recent congressional hearing. A proposed application or “read copy” is a
near-ﬁnal version of the govemment’s application, which does not include the signatures of executive
branch ofﬁcials required by statutory provisions such as 50 U.S.C. §§ 1804(a)(6) and 1823(a)(6). As
described below, in most circumstances, the government will subsequently ﬁle a ﬁnal copy of an
application pursuant to Rule 9(b) of the FISC Rules of Procedure. Both the proposed and ﬁnal
applications include proposed orders.

The process of using proposed applications and ﬁnal applications is altogether similar to the
process employed by other federal courts in considering applications for wiretap orders under Title III of
the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended (“Title [11”), which is codiﬁed at
18 U.S.C. §§ 2510-2522.

3 In discussing Court interactions with “the government” throughout this document, 1 am
referring to interactions with attorneys in the Ofﬁce of Intelligence of the National Security Division of
the United States Department of Justice.

4 Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. §§ 1805(d)(3) and 1824(d)(3), the Court is authorized to assess
compliance with the statutorily-required minimization procedures by reviewing the circumstances under
which information concerning United States persons was acquired, retained, or disseminated.

5 For each application, the Court retains the attomey’s written analysis and the notes made by the
judge, so that if the government later seeks to renew the authorization, the judge who considers the next

