 

 

 

 

submitted as part of the ﬁrst proposed application or other submission that raises the
issue.

Rule 12. Submission of Targeting and Minimization Procedures. In a matter involving
Court review of targeting or minimization procedures, such procedures may be set out in full in
the government’s submission or may be incorporated by reference to procedures approved in a
prior docket. Procedures that are incorporated by reference to a prior docket may be
supplemented, but not otherwise modiﬁed, in the govemment’s submission. Otherwise,
proposed procedures must be set forth in a clear and self-contained manner, without resort to
cross-referencing.

Rule 13. Correction of Misstatement or Omission; Disclosure of Non-Compliance.
(a) Correction of Material Facts. If the government discovers that a submission to the
Court contained a misstatement or omission of material fact, the government, in writing,
must immediately inform the Judge to whom the submission was made of:
(l) the misstatement or omission;
(2) any necessary correction;
(3) the facts and circumstances relevant to the misstatement or omission;
(4) any modiﬁcations the government has made or proposes to make in how it will
implement any authority or approval granted by the Court; and
(5) how the government proposes to dispose of or treat any information obtained
as a result of the misstatement or omission.
(b) Disclosure of Non-Compliance. If the government discovers that any authority or
approval granted by the Court has been implemented in a manner that did not comply
with the Court’s authorization or approval or with applicable law, the government, in
writing, must immediately inform the Judge to whom the submission was made of:
(l) the non-compliance;
(2) the facts and circumstances relevant to the non-compliance;
(3) any modiﬁcations the government has made or proposes to make in how it will
implement any authority or approval granted by the Court; and
(4) how the government proposes to dispose of or treat any information obtained
as a result of the non-compliance.

Rule 14. Motions to Amend Court Orders. Unless the Judge who issued the order granting an
application directs otherwise, a motion to amend the order may be presented to any other Judge.

Rule 15. Sequestration. Except as required by Court-approved minimization procedures, the
government must not submit material for sequestration with the Court without the prior approval
of the Presiding Judge. To obtain such approval, the government must, prior to tendering the
material to the Court for sequestration, ﬁle a motion stating the circumstances of the material’s
acquisition and explaining why it is necessary for such material to be retained in the custody of
the Court.

 

