 

Rule 16. Returns.

(a) Time for Filing.
(1) Search Orders. Unless the Court directs otherwise, a return must be made
and ﬁled either at the time of submission of a proposed renewal application or
within 90 days of the execution of a search order, whichever is sooner.
(2) Other Orders. The Court may direct the ﬁling of other returns at a time and
in a manner that it deems appropriate.

(b) Contents. The return must:
(1) notify the Court of the execution of the order;
(2) describe the circumstances and results of the search or other activity including,
where appropriate, an inventory;
(3) certify that the execution was in conformity with the order or describe and
explain any deviation from the order; and
(4) include any other information as the Court may direct.

Title V. Hearings, Orders, and Enforcement

Rule 17. Hearings.
(a) Scheduling. The Judge to whom a matter is presented or assigned must determine
whether a hearing is necessary and, if so, set the time and place of the hearing.
(b) Ex Parte. Except as the Court otherwise directs or the Rules otherwise provide, a
hearing in a non-adversarial matter must be ex parte and conducted within the Court’s
secure facility.
(c) Appearances. Unless excused, the government ofﬁcial providing the factual
information in an application or certiﬁcation and an attorney for the applicant must attend
the hearing, along with other representatives of the government, and any other party, as
the Court may direct or permit.
(d) Testimony; Oath; Recording of Proceedings. A Judge may take testimony under
oath and receive other evidence. The testimony may be recorded electronically or as the
Judge may otherwise direct, consistent with the security measures referenced in Rule 3.

Rule 18. Court Orders.

(a) Citations. All orders must contain citations to pertinent provisions of the Act.

(b) Denying Applications.
(1) Written Statement of Reasons. If a Judge denies the govemment’s
application, the Judge must immediately provide a written statement of each
reason for the decision and cause a copy of the statement to be served on the
government.
(2) Previously Denied Application. If a Judge denies an application or other
request for relief by the government, any subsequent submission on the matter
must be referred to that Judge.

 

