.»»£J;

 

(c) Expiration Dates. An expiration date in an order must be stated using Eastern Time
and must be computed from the date and time of the Court’s issuance of the order, or, if
applicable, of an emergency authorization.

(d) Electronic Signatures. The Judge may sign an order by any reliable, appropriately
secure electronic means, including facsimile.

Rule 19. Enforcement of Orders.
(a) Show Cause Motions. If a person or entity served with a Court order (the
“recipient”) fails to comply with that order, the govemment may ﬁle a motion for an
order to show cause why the recipient should not be held in contempt and sanctioned
accordingly. The motion must be presented to the Judge who entered the underlying
order.
(b) Proceedings.
(1) An order to show cause must:
(i) conﬁrm that the underlying order was issued;
(ii) schedule further proceedings; and
(iii) afford the recipient an opportunity to show cause why the recipient
should not be held in contempt.
(2) A Judge must conduct any proceeding on a motion to show cause in camera.
The Clerk must maintain all records of the proceedings in conformance with 50
U.S.C. § 1803(c).
(3) If the recipient fails to show cause for noncompliance with the underlying
order, the Court may ﬁnd the recipient in contempt and enter any order it deems
necessary and appropriate to compel compliance and to sanction the recipient for
noncompliance with the underlying order.
(4) If the recipient shows cause for noncompliance or if the Court concludes that
the order should not be enforced as issued, the Court may enter any order it deems
appropriate.

Title VI. Supplemental Procedures for Proceedings Under 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)

Rule 20. Scope. Together with the generally-applicable provisions of these Rules concerning
ﬁling, service, and other matters, these supplemental procedures apply in proceedings under 50

. U.S.C. § 188la(h).

Rule 21. Petition to Modify or Set Aside a Directive. An electronic communication service
provider (“provider”), who receives a directive issued under 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)(l), may ﬁle a
petition to modify or set aside such directive under 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)(4). A petition may be
ﬁled by the provider’s counsel.

 

