 

 

Rule 22. Petition to Compel Compliance With a Directive. In the event a provider fails to
comply with a directive issued under 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)(l), the government may, pursuant to
50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)(5), ﬁle a petition to compel compliance with the directive.

Rule 23. Contents of Petition. The petition must:
(a) state clearly the relief being sought;
(b) state concisely the factual and legal grounds for modifying, setting aside, or
compelling compliance with the directive at issue;
(c) include a copy of the directive and state the date on which the directive was served on
the provider; and
(d) state whether a hearing is requested.

Rule 24. Response.
(a) By Government. The government may, within seven days following notiﬁcation
under Rule 28(b) that plenary review is necessary, ﬁle a response to a provider’s petition.
(b) By Provider. The provider may, within seven days after service of a petition by the
government to compel compliance, ﬁle a response to the petition.

Rule 25. Length of Petition and Response; Other Papers.
(a) Length. Unless the Court directs otherwise, a petition and response each must not
exceed 20 pages in length, including any attachments (other than a copy of the directive at
issue).
(b) Other papers. No supplements, replies, or sur-replies may be ﬁled without leave of
the Court.

Rule 26. Notiﬁcation of Presiding Judge. Upon receipt, the Clerk must notify the Presiding
Judge that a petition to modify, set aside, or compel compliance with a directive issued under 50
U.S.C. § 188la(h)(1) has been ﬁled. If the Presiding Judge is not reasonably available when the
Clerk receives a petition, the Clerk must notify each of the local Judges, in order of seniority on
the Court, and, if necessary, each of the other Judges, in order of seniority on the Court, until a
Judge who is reasonably available has received notiﬁcation. The reasonably available Judge who
receives notiﬁcation will be the acting Presiding Judge (“Presiding Judge”) for the case.

Rule 27. Assignment.
(a) Presiding Judge. As soon as possible aﬁer receiving notiﬁcation from the Clerk that
a petition has been ﬁled, and no later than 24 hours after the ﬁling of the petition, the
Presiding Judge must assign the matter to a Judge in the petition review pool established
by 50 U.S.C. § 1803(e)(1). The Clerk must record the date and time of the assignment.
(b) Transmitting Petition. The Clerk must transmit the petition to the assigned Judge
as soon as possible but no later than 24 hours after being notiﬁed of the assignment by the
Presiding Judge.

 

