 

Rule 28. Review of Petition to Modify or Set Aside a Directive.

(a) Initial Review Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)(4)(D).
(l) A Judge must conduct an initial review of a petition to modify or set aside a
directive within ﬁve days after being assigned such petition.
(2) If the Judge determines that the provider’s claims, defenses, or other legal
contentions are not warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for
extending, modifying, or reversing existing law or for establishing new law, the
Judge must promptly deny such petition, afﬁrm the directive, and order the
provider to comply with the directive. Upon making such determination or
promptly thereafter, the Judge must provide a written statement of reasons. The
Clerk must transmit the ruling and statement of reasons to the provider and the
government.

(b) Plenary Review Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)(4)(E).
(1) If the Judge determines that the petition requires plenary review, the Court
must promptly notify the parties. The Judge must provide a written statement of
reasons for the determination.
(2) The Judge must afﬁrm, modify, or set aside the directive that is the subject of
the petition within the time permitted under 50 U.S.C. §§ l88la(h)(4)(E) and
l88la(i)(2).
(3) The Judge may hold a hearing or conduct proceedings solely on the papers
ﬁled by the provider and the government.

(c) Burden. Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)(4)(C), a Judge may grant the petition only

if the Judge ﬁnds that the challenged directive does not meet the requirements of 50

U.S.C. § 1881a or is otherwise unlawful.

(d) Continued Effect. Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § l88la(h)(4)(F), any directive not

explicitly modiﬁed or set aside by the Judge remains in full effect.

Rule 29. Review of Petition to Compel Compliance Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)(5)(C).
(a) The Judge reviewing the govemment’s petition to compel compliance with a directive
must, within the time permitted under 50 U.S.C. §§ l88la(h)(5)(C) and l88la(j)(2), issue
an order requiring the provider to comply with the directive or any part of it, as issued or
as modiﬁed, if the Judge ﬁnds that the directive meets the requirements of 50 U.S.C.
§ 1881a and is otherwise lawful.

(b) The Judge must provide a written statement of reasons for the determination. The
Clerk must transmit the ruling and statement of reasons to the provider and the
government.

Rule 30. In Camera Review. Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 1803(e)(2), the Court must review a
petition under 50 U.S.C. § l88la(h) and conduct related proceedings in camera.

Rule 3]. Appeal. Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § l88la(h)(6) and subject to Rules 54 through 59 of

these Rules, the government or the provider may petition the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court of Review (“Court of Review”) to review the Judge’s ruling.

-9-

 

