 

Title VII. Supplemental Procedures for Proceedings Under 50 U.S.C. § 1861(0

Rule 32. Scope. Together with the generally-applicable provisions of these Rules regarding
ﬁling, service, and other matters, these supplemental procedures apply in proceedings under 50
U.S.C. § 1861(1).

Rule 33. Petition Challenging Production or Nondisclosure Order.

(a) Who May File. The recipient of a production order or nondisclosure order under 50

[1.3.0 § 1861 (“petitioner”) may ﬁle a petition challenging the order pursuant to 50

U.S.C. § 1861(1). A petition may be ﬁled by the petitioner’s counsel.

(b) Time to File Petition.
(l) Challenging a Production Order. The petitioner must ﬁle a petition
challenging a production order within 20 days after the order has been served.
(2) Challenging a Nondisclosure Order. A petitioner may not ﬁle a petition
challenging a nondisclosure order issued under 50 U.S.C. § 1861(d) earlier than
one year after the order was entered.
(3) Subsequent Petition Challenging a Nondisclosure Order. If a Judge
denies a petition to modify or set aside a nondisclosure order, the petitioner may
not ﬁle a subsequent petition challenging the same nondisclosure order earlier
than one year after the date of the denial.

Rule 34. Contents of Petition. A petition must:
(a) state clearly the relief being sought;
(h) state concisely the factual and legal grounds for modifying or setting aside the
challenged order;
(c) include a copy of the challenged order and state the date on which it was served on the
petitioner; and
(d) state whether a hearing is requested.

Rule 35. Length of Petition. Unless the Court directs otherwise, a petition may not exceed 20
pages in length, including any attachments (other than a copy of the challenged order).

Rule 36. Request to Stay Production.
(a) Petition Does Not Automatically Effect a Stay. A petition does not automatically
stay the underlying order. A production order will he stayed only if the petitioner
requests a stay and the Judge grants such relief.
(b) Stay May Be Requested Prior to Filing of a Petition. A petitioner may request the
Court to stay the production order before ﬁling a petition challenging the order.

Rule 37. Notiﬁcation of Presiding Judge. Upon receipt, the Clerk must notify the Presiding

Judge that a petition challenging a production or nondisclosure order has been ﬁled. If the
Presiding Judge is not reasonably available when the Clerk receives the petition, the Clerk must

-10-

 

