 

 

notify each of the local Judges, in order of seniority on the Court, and, if necessary, each of the
other Judges, in order of seniority on the Court, until a Judge who is reasonably available has
received notiﬁcation. The reasonably available Judge who receives notiﬁcation will be the acting
Presiding Judge (“Presiding Judge”) for the case.

Rule 38. Assignment.
(a) Presiding Judge. Immediately aﬁer receiving notiﬁcation from the Clerk that a
petition has been ﬁled, the Presiding Judge must assign the matter to a Judge in the
petition pool established by 50 U.S.C. § 1803(e)(1). The Clerk must record the date and
time of the assignment.
(b) Transmitting Petition. The Clerk must transmit the petition to the assigned Judge
as soon as possible but no later than 24 hours after being notiﬁed of the assignment by the
Presiding Judge.

Rule 39. Initial Review.
(a) When. The Judge must review the petition within 72 hours after being assigned the
petition.
(b) Frivolous Petition. If the Judge determines that the petition is frivolous, the Judge
must:
(1) immediately deny the petition and aﬂirm the challenged order;
(2) promptly provide a written statement of the reasons for the denial; and
(3) provide a written ruling, together with the statement of reasons, to the Clerk,
who must transmit the ruling and statement of reasons to the petitioner and the
government.
(c) Non-Frivolous Petition.
(1) Scheduling. If the Judge determines that the petition is not frivolous, the
Judge must promptly issue an order that sets a schedule for its consideration. The
Clerk must transmit the order to the petitioner and the government.
(2) Manner of Proceeding. The judge may hold a hearing or conduct the
proceedings solely on the papers ﬁled by the petitioner and the government.

Rule 40. Response to Petition; Other Papers.
(a) Government’s Response. Unless the Judge orders otherwise, the government must
ﬁle a response within 20 days aﬁer the issuance of the initial scheduling order pursuant to
Rule 39(c). The response must not exceed 20 pages in length, including any attachments
(other than a copy of the challenged order).
(b) Other Papers. No supplements, replies, or sur-replies may be ﬁled without leave of
the Court.

Rule 41. Rulings on Non-frivolous Petitions.
(a) Written Statement of Reasons. If the Judge determines that the petition is not
frivolous, the Judge must promptly provide a written statement of the reasons for
modifying, setting aside, or afﬁrming the production or nondisclosure order.

-11-

 

