 

(b) Afﬁrming the Order. If the Judge does not modify or set aside the production or
nondisclosure order, the Judge must afﬁrm it and order the recipient promptly to comply
with it.

(c) Transmitting the Judge’s Ruling. The Clerk must transmit the Judge’s ruling and
written statement of reasons to the petitioner and the government.

Rule 42. Failure to Comply. If a recipient fails to comply with an order afﬁrmed under 50
U.S.C. § 1861(f), the government may ﬁle a motion seeking immediate enforcement of the
affirmed order. The Court may consider the govemment’s motion without receiving additional
submissions or convening further proceedings on the matter.

Rule 43. In Camera Review. Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § l803(e)(2), the Court must review a
petition under 50 U.S.C. § 1861(t) and conduct related proceedings in camera.

Rule 44. Appeal. Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § l86l(t)(3) and subject to Rules 54 through 59 of
these Rules, the government or the petitioner may petition the Court of Review to review the
Judge’s ruling.

Title VIII. En Banc Proceedings

Rule 45. Standard for Hearing or Rehearing En Banc. Pursuant to 50 U.S.C.

§ l803(a)(2)(A), the Court may order a hearing or rehearing en banc only if it is necessary to
secure or maintain uniformity of the Court’s decisions, or the proceeding involves a question of
exceptional importance.

Rule 46. Initial Hearing En Banc on Request of a Party. The government in any proceeding,
or a party in a proceeding under 50 U.S.C. § 1861(0 or 50 U.S.C. § 188la(h)(4)-(5), may request
that the matter be entertained from the outset by the full Court. However, initial hearings en banc
are extraordinary and will be ordered only when a majority of the Judges determines that a matter
is of such immediate and extraordinary importance that initial consideration by the en banc Court
is necessary, and en banc review is feasible in light of applicable time constraints on Court
action.

Rule 47. Rehearing En Banc on Petition by a Party.
(a) Timing of Petition and Response. A party may ﬁle a petition for rehearing en banc
permitted under 50 U.S.C. § l803(a)(2) no later than 30 days after the challenged order or
decision is entered. In an adversarial proceeding in which a petition for rehearing en banc
is permitted under § l803(a)(2), a party must ﬁle a response to the petition within 14 days
aﬁer ﬁling and service of the petition.
(b) Length of Petition and Response. Unless the Court directs otherwise, a petition for
rehearing en banc and a response to a petition for rehearing en banc each must not exceed
15 pages, including any attachments (other than the challenged order or decision).

-12-

 

