 

 

 

Rule 48. Circulation of En Banc Petitions and Responses. The Clerk must, alter consulting
with the Presiding Judge and in a manner consistent with applicable security requirements,
promptly provide a copy of any timely-ﬁled en banc petition permitted under 50 U.S.C.

§ 1803(a)(2), and any timely-ﬁled response thereto, to each Judge.

Rule 49. Court-Initiated En Banc Proceedings. A Judge to whom a matter has been presented
may request that all Judges be polled with respect to whether the matter should be considered or
reconsidered en banc. On a Judge’s request, the Clerk must, after consulting with the Presiding
Judge and in a manner consistent with applicable security requirements, promptly provide notice
of the request, along with a copy of pertinent materials, to every Judge.

Rule 50. Polling.
(a) Deadline for Vote. The Presiding Judge must set a deadline for the Judges to submit
their vote to the Clerk on whether to grant a hearing or rehearing en bone. The deadline
must be communicated to all Judges at the time the petition or polling request is
circulated.
(b) Vote on Stay. In the case of rehearing en banc, the Presiding Judge may request that
all Judges also vote on whether and to what extent the challenged order or ruling should
he stayed or remain in effect if rehearing en banc is granted, pending a decision by the en
banc Court on the merits.

Rule 51. Stay Pending En Banc Review.
(a) Stay or Modifying Order. In accordance with 50 U.S.C. §§ 1803(a)(2)(B) and
1803(1), the Court en banc may enter a stay or modifying order while en banc
proceedings are pending.
01) Statement of Position Regarding Continued Effect of Challenged Order. A
petition for rehearing en banc and any response to the petition each must include a
statement of the party’s position as to whether and to what extent the challenged order
should remain in effect if rehearing en banc is granted, pending a decision by the en banc
Court on the merits.

Rule 52. Supplemental Briefing. Upon ordering hearing or rehearing en banc, the Court may
require the submission of supplemental briefs.

Rule 53. Order Granting or Denying En Banc Review.
(a) Entry of Order. If a majority of the Judges votes within the time allotted for polling
that a matter be considered en banc, the Presiding Judge must direct the Clerk to enter an
order granting en banc review. If a majority of the Judges does not vote to grant hearing
or rehearing en banc within the time allotted for polling, the Presiding Judge must direct
the Clerk to enter an order denying en banc review.
(b) Other Issues. The Presiding Judge may set the time of an en banc hearing and the
time and scope of any supplemental hearing in the order granting en banc review. The

-13-

 

