 

 

order may also address whether and to what extent the challenged order or ruling will be
stayed or remain in effect pending a decision by the en banc Court on the merits.

Title IX. Appeals

Rule 54. How Taken. An appeal to the Court of Review, as permitted by law, may be taken by
ﬁling a petition for review with the Clerk.

Rule 55. When Taken.
(a) Generally. Except as the Act provides otherwise, a party must ﬁle a petition for
review no later than 30 days after entry of the decision or order as to which review is
sought.
(b) Effect of En Banc Proceedings. Following the timely submission of a petition for
rehearing en banc permitted under 50 U.S.C. § 1803(a)(2) or the grant of rehearing en
banc on the Court’s own initiative, the time otherwise allowed for taking an appeal runs
from the date on which such petition is denied or dismissed or, if en banc review is
granted, from the date of the decision of the en banc Court on the merits.

Rule 56. Stay Pending Appeal. In accordance with 50 U.S.C. § 1803(f), the Court may enter a
stay of an order or an order modifying an order while an appeal is pending.

Rule 57. Motion to Transmit the Record. Together with the petition for review, the party
ﬁling the appeal must also ﬁle a motion to transmit the record to the Court of Review.

Rule 58. Transmitting the Record. The Clerk must arrange to transmit the record under seal to
the Court of Review as expeditiously as possible, no later than 30 days after an appeal has been
ﬁled. The Clerk must include a copy of the Court’s statement of reasons for the decision or order
appealed from as part of the record on appeal.

Rule 59. Oral Notiﬁcation to the Court of Review. The Clerk must orally notify the Presiding
Judge of the Court of Review promptly upon the ﬁling of a petition for review.

Title X. Administrative Provisions

Rule 60. Duties of the Clerk.
(a) General Duties. The Clerk supports the work of the Court consistent with the
directives of the Presiding Judge. The Presiding Judge may authorize the Clerk to
delegate duties to staff in the Clerk’s office or other designated individuals.
(b) Maintenance of Court Records. The Clerk:
(1) maintains the Court’s docket and records — including records and recordings
of proceedings before the Court — and the seal of the Court;

-14-

 

 

 

