Honorable Patrick J. Leahy
July 29, 2013
Page 3

of action to take. These courses of action might include indicating to Court staff that he or she is
prepared to approve the application without a hearing; indicating an inclination to impose
conditions on the approval of the application; determining that additional information is needed
about the application; or determining that a hearing would be appropriate before deciding
whether to grant the application. A staff attorney will then relay the judge’s inclination to the
government, and the government will typically proceed by providing additional information, or
by submitting a ﬁnal application (sometimes with amendments, at the government’s election) for
the Court’s ruling pursuant to Rule 9(b) of the FISC Rules of Procedure. In conjunction with its
submission of a ﬁnal application, the government has an opportunity to request a hearing, even if
the judge did not otherwise intend to require one. The government might request a hearing, for
example, to challenge conditions that the judge has indicated he or she would impose on the
approval of an application. If the judge schedules a hearing, the judge decides whether to
approve the application thereafter. Otherwise, the judge makes a determination based on the
ﬁnal written application submitted by the government. In approving an application, a judge will
sometimes issue a Supplemental Order in addition to signing the government’s proposed orders.
Often, a Supplemental Order imposes some form of reporting requirement on the government.

If after receiving a ﬁnal application, the judge is inclined to deny it, the Court will prepare
a statement of reason(s) pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § l803(a)(1). In some cases, the government may
decide not to submit a ﬁnal application, or to withdraw one that has been submitted, after
learning that the judge does not intend to approve it. The annual statistics provided to Congress
by the Attorney General pursuant to 50 U.S.C. §§ 1807 and 1862(b) — frequently cited to in press
reports as a suggestion that the Court’s approval rate of applications is over 99% — reﬂect only
the number of ﬁnal applications submitted to and acted on by the Court. These statistics do not
reﬂect the fact that many applications are altered prior to ﬁnal submission or even withheld from
ﬁnal submission entirely, often after an indication that ajudge would not approve them.6

Most applications under Title V of FISA are handled pursuant to the process described
above. However, applications under Title V of FISA for bulk collection of phone call metadata
records are normally handled by the weekly duty judge using a process that is similar to the one
described above, albeit more exacting. The government typically submits a proposed application
of this type more than one week in advance. The attorney who reviews the application spends a

 

application has the beneﬁt of the prior thoughts of thejudge(s) and staff, and a written record of any
problems with the case.

6 Notably, the approval rate for Title III wiretap applications (see note 2 above) is higher than
the approval rate for F ISA applications, even using the Attorney General’s F ISA statistics as the baseline
for comparison, as recent statistics show that from 2008 through 2012, only ﬁve of 13,593 Title III
wiretap applications were requested but not authorized. See Administrative Ofﬁce of the United States
Courts, Wiretap Report 2012, Table 7 (available at
http://www.uscourts.gov/uscourts/statistics/wiretapreports/201 2/Tab1e7.pdf).

 

