 

 

 

(2) accepts papers for ﬁling;

(3) keeps all records, pleadings, and ﬁles in a secure location, making those
materials available only to persons authorized to have access to them; and
(4) performs any other duties, consistent with the usual powers of a Clerk of
Court, as the Presiding Judge may authorize.

Rule 61. Office Hours. Although the Court is always open, the regular business hours of the
Clerk’s Ofﬁce are 9:00 am. to 5:00 pm. daily except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
Except when the government submits an application following an emergency authorization, or
when the Court otherwise directs, any ﬁling outside these hours will be recorded as received at
the start of the next business day.

Rule 62. Release of Court Records.
(a) Publication of Opinions. The Judge who authored an order, opinion, or other
decision may sua sponte or on motion by a party request that it be published. Upon such
request, the Presiding Judge, after consulting with other Judges of the Court, may direct
that an order, opinion or other decision be published. Before publication, the Court may,
as appropriate, direct the Executive Branch to review the order, opinion, or other decision
and redact it as necessary to ensure that properly classiﬁed information is appropriately
protected pursuant to Executive Order 13526 (or its successor).
(b) Other Records. Except when an order, opinion, or other decision is published or
provided to a party upon issuance, the Clerk may not release it, or other related record,
without a Court order. Such records must be released in conformance with the security
measures referenced in Rule 3.
(c) Provision of Court Records to Congress.
(1) By the Government. The government may provide copies of Court orders,
opinions, decisions, or other Court records, to Congress, pursuant to 50 U.S.C.
§§ 1871(a)(5), 1871(c), or 1881f(b)(l)(D), or any other statutory requirement,
without prior motion to and order by the Court. The government, however, must
contemporaneously notify the Court in writing whenever it provides copies of
Court records to Congress and must include in the notice a list of the documents
provided.
(2) By the Court. The Presiding Judge may provide copies of Court orders,
opinions, decisions, or other Court records to Congress. Such disclosures must be
made in conformance with the security measures referenced in Rule 3.

Rule 63. Practice Before Court. An attorney may appear on a matter with the permission of
the Judge before whom the matter is pending. An attorney who appears before the Court must be
a licensed attorney and a member, in good standing, of the bar of a United States district or
circuit court, except that an attorney who is employed by and represents the United States or any
of its agencies in a matter before the Court may appear before the Court regardless of federal bar
membership. All attorneys appearing before the Court must have the appropriate security
clearance.

-15-

 

 

