 

Honorable Patrick J. Leahy
July 29, 2013
Page 4

greater amount of time reviewing and preparing a written analysis of such an application, in part
because the Court has always required detailed information about the govemment’s
implementation of this authority. The judge likewise typically spends a greater amount of time
than he or she normally spends on an individual application, carefully considering the extensive
information provided by the government and determining whether to seek more information or
hold a hearing before ruling on the application.

As described above, the majority of applications submitted to the Court are handled on a
seven-day cycle, by a judge sitting on a weekly duty schedule. Applications that are novel or
more complex are sometimes handled on a longer time-line, usually require additional brieﬁng,
and are assigned by the Presiding Judge based on judges’ availability. Section 702 (i.e., 50
U.S.C. § 1881a) applications7 would typically fall into this category.

Where the Court’s process for handling Section 702 applications differs from the process
described above, it is largely based on the statutory requirements of that section, which was
enacted as part of the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 (FAA). Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. §§
1881a(g)(1)(A) & (g)(2)(D)(i), prior to the implementation of an authorization under Section
702, the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence must provide the Court with
a written certiﬁcation containing certain statutorily required elements, and that certiﬁcation must
include an effective date for the authorization that is at least 30 days after the submission of the
written certiﬁcation to the Court.8 Under 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(i)(B), the Court must review the
certiﬁcation, as well as the targeting and minimization procedures adopted in accordance with 50
U.S.C. §§ 1881a(d) & (e), not later than 30 days after the date on which the certiﬁcation and
procedures are submitted. The statutorily-imposed deadline for the Court’s review typically
coincides with the effective date identiﬁed in the ﬁnal certiﬁcation ﬁled with the Court.

The govemment’s submission of a Section 702 application typically includes a cover
ﬁling that highlights any special issues and identiﬁes any changes that have been made relative to
the prior application. The government has typically ﬁled proposed (read copy) Section 702
applications approximately one month before ﬁling a ﬁnal application. Proposed Section 702
applications are reviewed by multiple members of the Court’s legal staff. At the direction of the
Presiding Judge or a judge who has been assigned to handle the Section 702 application, the

 

7 “Section 702 application” is used here to refer collectively to a Section 702 certiﬁcation and
supporting afﬁdavit, as well as to the statutorily-required targeting and minimization procedures.

8 If the acquisition has already begun (e.g., pursuant to a determination of exigent circumstances
under 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(c)(2)) or the effective date is less than 30 days after the submission of the
written certiﬁcation to the Court (e.g., because of an amendment to a certiﬁcation while judicial review is
pending, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(i)(1)(C)), 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(g)(2)(D)(ii) requires the
certiﬁcation to include the date the acquisition began or the effective date of the authorization.

 

