 

Honorable Patrick J. Leahy
July 29, 2013
Page 5

Court’s legal staff may request a meeting with the government to discuss a proposed application.
Also at the direction of the Presiding Judge or a judge who has been assigned to handle the
Section 702 application, the Court legal staff may request additional information from the
government or convey a judge’s concerns about the legal sufﬁciency of a proposed Section 702
application. Following these interactions, the government ﬁles a ﬁnal Section 702 application,
which the government may have elected to amend based on any concerns raised by the judge.

The judge reviews the ﬁnal Section 702 application and may set a hearing if he or she has
additional questions about it. If the judge finds (based on the written submission alone or the
written submission in combination with a hearing) that the certiﬁcation contains all of the
required elements, and that the targeting and minimization procedures adopted in accordance
with 50 U.S.C. §§ 1881a(d) & (e) are consistent with the requirements of those subsections and
with the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, the judge enters an order
approving the certiﬁcation in accordance with 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(i)(3)(A). As required by 50
U.S.C. § 1881a(i)(3)(C), the judge also issues an opinion in support of the order. If the judge
ﬁnds that the certiﬁcation does not contain the required elements or the targeting and
minimization procedures are inconsistent with the requirements of 50 U.S.C. §§ 1881a(d) & (e),
or the Fourth Amendment, the judge will, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 188 1a(i)(3)(B), issue an order
directing the government to, at the government’s election and to the extent required by the
Court’s order, either correct any deficiency identified by the Court’s order not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Court issues the order, or cease, or not begin, the implementation of
the authorization for which the certification was submitted. Subsequent review of any remedial
measures taken by the government may then be required and may result in another order and
opinion pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(i).

2. When considering such applications and submissions, please describe the interaction
between the government and the Court (including both judges and court stafﬂ, including
any hearings, meetings, or other means through which the Court has the opportunity to
ask questions or seek additional information ﬁom the government. Please describe how
ﬁequently such exchanges occur, and generally what types of additional information that
the Court might request ofthe government, ifany. Please also describe how frequently
the Court asks the government to make changes to its applications and submissions
before ruling.

The process through which the Court interacts with the government in reviewing
proposed applications, seeking additional information, conveying Court concerns, and
adjudicating ﬁnal applications, is very similar to the process employed by other federal courts in
considering applications for wiretap orders under Title III (discussed in notes 2 and 6 above).

Under FISA practice, the first set of interactions often take place at the staff level. The
Court’s legal staff frequently interacts with the government in various ways in the context of

 

