 

Honorable Patrick J. Leahy
July 29, 2013
Page 6

examining the legal sufﬁciency of applications before they are presented in ﬁnal form to a judge.
Indeed, in the process of reviewing the govemment’s applications and submissions in order to
provide advice to the judge, the legal staff interact with the government on a daily basis. These
daily interactions typically consist of secure telephone conversations in which legal staff ask the
government questions about the legal and factual elements of applications or submissions. These
questions may originate with legal staff after an initial review of an application or submission, or
they may come from a judge.

At the direction of the Presiding Judge or the judge assigned to a matter, Court legal staff
sometimes meet with the government in connection with applications and submissions. The
Court typically requests such meetings when a proposed application or submission presents a
special legal or factual concern about which the Court would like additional information (e.g., a
novel use of technology or a request to use a new surveillance or search technique). The
frequency of such meetings varies depending on the Court’s assessment of its need for additional
information in matters before it and the most conducive means to obtain that information. Court
legal staff may meet with the government as often as 2-3 times a week, or as few as 1-2 times a
month, in connection with the various matters pending before the Court.

Pursuant to 50 U.S.C. § 1803(a)(2)(A) and Rule 17(a) of the FISC Rules of Procedure,
the Court also holds hearings in cases in which a judge assesses that he or she needs additional
information in order to rule on a matter. The frequency of hearings varies depending on the
nature and complexity of matters pending before the Court at a given time, and also, to some
extent, based on the individual preferences of different judges. Hearings are attended, at a
minimum, by the Department of Justice attorney who prepared the application and a fact witness
from the agency seeking the Court’s authorization.

The types of additional information sought from the government — through telephone
conversations, meetings, or hearings — include, but are not limited to, the following: additional
facts to justify the govemment’s belief that its application meets the legal requirements for the
type of authority it is seeking (e.g., in the case of electronic surveillance, that might include
additional information to justify the govemment’s belief that a target of surveillance is a foreign
power or an agent of a foreign power, as required by 50 U.S.C. § 1804(a)(3)(A), or that the target
is using or about to use a particular facility, as required by 50 U.S.C. § 1804(a)(3)(B)); additional
facts about how the government intends to implement statutorily required minimization
procedures (see, e.g., 50 U.S.C. §§ 1801(h); 1805(a)(3); 1824(a)(3); 1861(c)(1); 1881a(i)(3)(A);
and 1881c(c)(1)(c)); additional information about the government’s prior implementation of a
Court order, particularly if the government has previously failed to comply fully with a Court
order; or additional information about novel issues of technology or law (& Rule 11 of FISC
Rules of Procedure).

In a typical week, the Court seeks additional information or modiﬁes the terms proposed

 

 

