 

Honorable Patrick J. Leahy
July 29, 2013
Page 7

by the government in a signiﬁcant percentage of cases.9 (The Court has recently initiated the
process of tracking more precisely how frequently this occurs.) The judge may determine, for
example, that he or she cannot make the necessary ﬁndings under the statute without the addition
of information to the application, or that he or she can approve only some of the authorities
sought through the application. The government then has the choice to alter its ﬁnal application
or proposed orders in response to the judge’s concerns; request a hearing to address those
concerns; submit a ﬁnal application without changes; or elect not to proceed at all with a ﬁnal
application. If the government ﬁles a ﬁnal application, the Court may, on its own, make changes
to the government’s proposed orders (or issue totally redrafted orders) to address the judge’s
concern about a given application. The judge may choose, for example, to make an authorization
of a shorter duration than what was requested by the government, or the judge may issue a
Supplemental Order imposing special reporting or minimization requirements on the
government’s implementation of an authorization.

3. Public FISA Court opinions and orders make clear that the Court has considered
the views ofnon—governmental parties in certain cases, including a provider
challenge to the Protect America Act of 2007. Describe instances where non-
governmental parties have appeared before the Court. Has the Court invited or
heard views from a nongovernmental party regarding applications or submissions
under Title I, Title V, or Title VII of FISA? If so, how did this come about, and
what was the process or mechanism that the Court used to enable such views to
be considered?

FISA does not provide a mechanism for the Court to invite the views of nongovernmental
parties. In fact, the Court’s proceedings are ex parte as required by the statute (see, e.g., 50
U.S.C. §§ 1805(a), 1824(a), 1842(d)(1) & 1861(c)(1)), and in keeping with the procedures
followed by other courts in applications for search warrants and wiretap orders. Nevertheless,
the statute and the FISC Rules of Procedure provide multiple opportunities for recipients of
Court orders or government directives to challenge those orders or directives, either directly or
through refusal to comply with orders or directives. Additionally, as detailed below, there have
been several instances — particularly in the past several months ~ in which nongovernmental
parties have appeared before the Court outside of the context of a challenge to an individual
Court order or government directive.

There has been one instance in which the Court heard arguments from a nongovernmental
party that sought to substantively contest a directive from the government. Speciﬁcally, in 2007,
the government issued directives to Yahoo!, Inc. (Yahoo) pursuant to Section 1058 of the Protect
America Act of 2007 (PAA). Yahoo refused to comply with the directives, and the government

 

9 This assessment does not include minor technical or typographical changes, which occur more
frequently.

 

 

