 

Honorable Patrick J. Leahy
July 29, 2013
Page 8

ﬁled a motion with this Court to compel compliance. The Court ordered and received brieﬁng
from both parties, and rendered a decision in April 2008.10

As noted above, the FISC Rules of Procedure and the FISA statute provide opportunities
for the appearance of nongovernmental parties before the Court in matters pending pursuant to
Titles I, V and VII of the statute. For example, Rule 19(a) of the FISC Rules of Procedure
provides that if a person or entity served with a Court order fails to comply with that order, the
government may ﬁle a motion for an order to show cause why the recipient should not be held in
contempt and sanctioned accordingly. Thus, a nongovernmental party served with an order may
invite an opportunity to be heard by the Court through refusal to comply with an order.

With respect to applications ﬁled under Title V of FISA, 50 U.S.C. § 1861(f)(2)(A)(i)
provides that a person receiving a production order may challenge the legality of that order by
ﬁling a petition with the Court. The same section of the statute provides that the recipient of a
production order may challenge the non-disclosure order imposed in connection with a
production order by ﬁling a petition to modify or set aside the nondisclosure order. Rules 33-36
of the FISC Rules of Procedure delineate the procedures and requirements for ﬁling such
petitions, including the time limits on such challenges. To date, no recipient of a production
order has opted to invoke this section of the statute.

With respect to applications ﬁled under Title VII of FISA, 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)(4)(A)
provides that an electronic communication service provider who receives a directive pursuant to
Section 702 may ﬁle a petition to modify or set aside the directive with the Court. Sections
1881a(h)(4)(A)-(G) of the statute, as well as Rule 28 of the FISC Rules of Procedure, delineate

 

‘0 Yahoo thereafter appealed the Court’s decision to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court
of Review (FISCR). E In re Directives [redacted] Pursuant to Section 105b of the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act, 551 F.3d 1004 (FISA Ct. Rev. 2008). This is not the only instance in
which a nongovernmental entity has appeared before the FISCR. In 2002, the FISCR accepted briefs
ﬁled by the ACLU and the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amici curiae in In re
Sealed Case, 310 F.3d 717 (FISA Ct. Rev. 2002).

While Yahoo’s identity as the provider that challenged these directives was previously under seal
pursuant to the FISCR’s decision in In re Directives, 551 F.3d 1004, 1016-18, the FISCR issued an Order
on June 26, 2013, indicating that it does not object to the release of Yahoo’s identity, and ordering,
among other things, a new declassiﬁcation review of the FISCR’s Opinion in In re Directives. The
FISCR issued this order in response to a motion by Yahoo’s counsel, and after receiving brieﬁng by
Yahoo and the government. Yahoo also recently ﬁled a motion for publication of the Court’s decision
that was appealed to the FISCR, resulting in the published opinion in In re Directives. The Court granted
the motion. Documents related to Yahoo’s recent motion to this Court are available at
http://www.uscourts.gov/uscourts/courts/ﬁsc/index.html under Docket No. 1058(g) 07-01.

 

 

