 

Honorable Patrick J. Leahy
July 29, 2013
Page 9

the procedures and requirements for such challenges. Relatedly, 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)(5)(A)
provides that if an electronic communication service provider fails to comply with a directive
issued under Section 702, the Attorney General may ﬁle a petition with the Court for an order to
compel compliance, which would likely result in the service provider’s appearance before the
Court through its legal representatives. (Section 188 1a(h)(5), as well as Rule 29 of the FISC
Rules of Procedure, provide further detail on the procedures and requirements for the
enforcement of Section 702 directives.) Finally, 50 U.S.C. § 1881a(h)(6) and Rule 31 of the

F ISC Rules of Procedure allow for the government or an electronic communication service
provider to appeal an order of this Court under §§ 1881a(h)(4) or (5) to the FISCR. To date, no
electronic communication service provider has opted to challenge a directive issued pursuant to
Section 702, although, as noted above, Yahoo refused to comply with government directives
issued under the PAA, which resulted in the government invoking a provision under that statute
to compel compliance.

As noted above, there have been a number of other instances in which nongovernmental
parties have appeared before the Court outside of the context of a direct challenge to a court
order or a government directive, particularly recently. Those instances are as follows:

In August 2007, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) ﬁled a motion with the
Court for the release of certain records. The Court ordered and received brieﬁng on the matter

from the ACLU and the government, and rendered a decision in December 2007. Sm In re
Motion for Release of Court Records, 526 F. Supp. 2d 484 (FISA Ct. 2007).

On May 23, 2013, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) ﬁled a motion with this
Court for consent to disclosure of court records, or in the alternative, a determination of the effect
of the Court’s rules on access rights under the Freedom of Information Act. Following brieﬁng
by EFF and the government, the Court issued an Opinion and Order on June 12, 2013. All
documents ﬁled in this docket are available at
http://www.uscourts.gov/uscourtsfcourts/ﬁsc/index.html under Case No. Misc. 13-01.

On June 12, 2013, the ACLU, the American Civil Liberties Union of the Nation’s
Capital, and the Media Freedom and Information Access Clinic (Movants) ﬁled a motion with
this Court for the release of Court records. The Court ordered and has received brieﬁng on the
matter from the Movants and the government. On July 18, 2013, the Court granted the motions
of (1) sixteen members of the House of Representatives and (2) a coalition of news media
organizations for leave to ﬁle amicus curiae briefs in this case. The matter is pending before the
Court. All documents ﬁled in this docket are available at
http://www.uscourts.gov/uscourts/courts/ﬁsc/index.html under Case No. Misc. 13—02.

On June 18, 2013, Google, Inc. ﬁled a motion with this Court for declaratory judgment of
the company’s ﬁrst amendment right to publish aggregate information about FISA orders. The

 

