TOP SECRETl/COMINTNNOFORNNZOSZOl08

overseas, or it will target Internet links that terminate in a foreign country. In either event, NSA
will direct surveillance at a party to the communication reasonably believed to be outside the
United States.

(S) Lead Information

(S) When NSA proposes to direct surveillance at a target, it does so because NSA has already
learned something about the target or the facility or facilities the target uses to communicate.
Accordingly, NSA will examine the lead information to determine what it reveals about the
physical location of the target, including the location of the facility or facilities being used by the
potential target.

(S) The following are examples of the types of lead information that NSA may examine:

a) Has the target stated that he is located outside the United States? For example, has
NSA or another intelligence agency collected a statement or statements made by the
target indicating that he is located outside the United States?

b) Has a human intelligence source or other source of lead information indicated that the
target is located outside the United States?

0) Does the lead information provided by an intelligence or law enforcement agency of
the United States government or an intelligence or law enforcement service of a
foreign government indicate that the target is located outside the United States?

d) Was the lead information about the target found on a hard drive or other medium that
was seized in a foreign country?

c) Vi'ith whom has the target had direct contact, and What do we know about the location
of such persons? For example, if lead information indicates the target is in direct
contact with several members of a foreign-based terrorist organization or foreign—
based political organization who themselves are located overseas, that may suggest,
depending on the totality of the circumstances, that the target is also located overseas.

(S) Information NSA Has About the Target's Location and/or Facility or Facilities Used by
the Target

(S) NSA may also review information in its databases, including repositories of information
collected by NSA and by other intelligence agencies, as well as publicly available information, to
determine if the person's location, or information providing evidence about the person’s location,
is already known. The NSA databases that would be used for this purpose contain information
culled from signals intelligence, human intelligence, law enforcement information, and other
sources. For example, NSA databases may include a report produced by the Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA) with the fact that a known terrorist is using a telephone with a particular number,
or detailed information on worldwide telephony numbering plans for Wire and Wireless telephone
systems.

TOP SECRETNCOMINTl/NOFORNUZ0320108
2

