TGP SECRET/lCOMINT//NOFORN//20320108

(S) In the absence of speciﬁc information regarding whether a target is a United States person, a
person reasonably believed to be located outside the United States or whose location is not
known will be presumed to be a non—United States person unless such person can be positively
identiﬁed as a United States person, or the nature or circumstances of the person's
communications give rise to a reasonable belief that such person is a United States person.

(S) Assessment of the Foreign Intelligence Purpose of the Targeting

(S) In assessing whether the target possesses and/or is likely to communicate foreign
intelligence information concerning a foreign power or foreign territory, NSA considers, among
other things, the following factors:

a. With respect to telephone communications:

a Information indicates that the telephone number has been used to communicate
directly with another telephone number reasonably believed by the US Intelligence
Cormnunity to be used by an individual associated with a foreign power or foreign
territory;

5 Information indicates that a user of the telephone number has communicated directly
with an individual reasonably believed by the US. Intelligence Community to be
associated with a foreign power or foreign territory;

» Information indicates that the telephone number is listed in the telephone directory of
a telephone used by an individual associated with a foreign power or foreign territory;

a Information indicates that the telephone number has been transmitted during a
telephone call or other communication with an individual reasonably believed by the
US. Intelligence Community to be associated with a foreign power or foreign
territory;

. Publicly available sources of information (e.g., telephone listings) match the
telephone number to an individual reasonably believed by the US. Intelligence
Community to be associated with a foreign power or foreign tenitory;

a Information contained in various NSA-maintained knowledge databases containing
foreign intelligence information acquired by any lawful means, such as electronic
surveillance, physical search, or the use of a pen register and trap or trace device, or
other information, reveals that the telephone number has been previously used by an
individual associated with a foreign power or foreign territory; or

 

’ (TSI/SII/NF) The NSA knowledge databases that would be used to satisfy this factor contain fused intelligence
information concerning international terrorism culled from signals intelligence, human intelligence, law enforcement
information, and other sources. The information compiled in these databases is information that assists the signals
intelligence system in effecting collection on intelligence targets. For example, a report produced by the CIA may
include the fact that a known terrorist is using a telephone with a particular number. NSA would include that
information in its knowledge databases.

TOP SECRET/N3OMINTI/NOFORNI/ZO320108
4

