TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT

BULLRUN Col - Briefing Sheet

Introduction

1.

The ability to exploit targets' encrypted communications is extremely fragile and is
often enabled through sensitive ECI programmes. The need to take additional
measures to protect that capability has long been recognised. Currently. virtually
all decryption is carried out by PTD — processing with decrypts going to
the HS in the NCiCCiN Col; some decrypts are placed in the ENDUE Col due to
the sensitivity or fragility of the exploitation capability.

In recent years there has been an aggressive effort. lead by NSA. to make major
improvements in defeating network security and privacy involving multiple
sources and methods. all of which are extremely sensitive and fragile. These
include: Computer Network Exploitation {CHE}; collaboration with other
Intelligence Agencies; investment in high—performance computers; and
development of advanced mathematical techniques. Several ECI compartments
may apply to the specific sources. methods. and techniques involved.

Making the best use of these new capabilities requires that decryption processing
be widely deployed beyond PTD and the results of that processing be available to
a wide range of analysts. This inevitably makes it harder to protect this sensitive
and fragile capability and we need to counterbalance this by introducing
measures to control access to this material and heighten awareness of the
sensitivities amongst those who have access.

To achieve this. NSA has introduced the BULLRUN Col to protect our abilities to
defeat the encryption used in network communication technologies. This covers
both the "fact of‘ a capability against a specific technology and resulting decrypts
[which may be either plaintext or metadata {events}. GCHQ is also introducing
BULLRUN. [CSEC. DSD and GCSB are expected to do likewise.)

Control Authority

5.

The BULLRUN Col is owned by the Deputy Director for Penetrating Target
Defences [PTD}. Authority to manage the Col is delegated to the PTD Lead for
Special |Ciperations and Policy [currently—J. and the PTD Security
and Release Authority [UPC—SEC. currently-.

BULLRUN Sensitivity and Coverage

6.

It is imperative to protect the fact that GCHQ. NSA and their Sigint partners have
capabilities against speciﬁc network security technologies as well as the number
and scope of successes. These capabilities are among the Sigint community’s
most fragile. and the inadvertent disclosure of the simple "fact of‘ could alert the
adversary and result in immediate loss ofthe capability. Consequently. any
admission of "fact of“ a capability to defeat encryption used in speciﬁc network
communication technologies or disclosure of details relating to that capability
must be protected by the BULLRUN CDI and restricted to those specifically

1of4

This information is exempt fiom disclosure under the Fieedom of information Act 2000 and may be subject to exemption under

other LIP; information legislation. Refer disclosure requests to GCHQ on —

TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT

