TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT
indoctrinated for BULLRUN. The yarious types of security coyered by BULLRUN
include. but are not limited to. TLSiSSL. https [e.g. webmail]. SSH. encrypted
chat. yPNs and encrypted VGIP. The speciﬁc instances of these technologies

that can be exploited will be published in a separate Annexe [ayailable to
BULLRUN indoctrinated staff}.

'i. In addition to the specific technologies that GCHQ or its Sigint partners are able
to exploit. the methods used to achieye the exploitation must also be protected.
These include support from other organisations. both internal and external to
GCHQ. Access to BULLRUN does NOT imply any "need—to—know” the details of
sources and methods used to achieye exploitation and. in general. there will be
NO "need—to—know”. Requests for access to information on sources and methods
should be sent to UPC—SEC; if considered appropriate. this access may require
clearance for certain ECIs.

8. BULLRUN material. data. and details must be protected with the use of the
BULLRUN Col and be marked with the label "BULLRUN." in addition to the
required priyacy marking and other descriptors. Use of the BULLRUN marking
is restricted to ECHO and its Sigirrt 2”d Parties.

Access and Security

9. Requests for access to the Col must be sponsored by a GCS or aboye and must
be accompanied by a business case outlining the "need—to—know”. Access for
contractors will be limited and will require a strong business case; such requests
should be discussed with the Col Authority’s delegates before submission.
Requests for access are to be sent by email to PTDAccesses.

10. Knowledge of BULLRUN information and access to the BULLRUN Col will only
be granted to indoctrinated indiyiduals.

11. It is the responsibility of sponsors [or their successors} to notify UPC—SEC [yia
PTDAccesses} when an indiyidual no longer require access to BULLRUN.

Handling Procedures

12. Owners of BULLRUN materials are responsible for correctly marking the
information and for ensuring that it is handled according to guidelines for
protecting classified or CGI information.

13.. Reports deriyed from BULLRUN material shall not reyeal [or imply} thatthe
source data was decrypted. The network communication technology that carried
the communication should not be reyealed.

14. Further dissemination. other than in product reports. of any data or information

deriyed from BULLRUN data must be thoroughly justified and receiye prior
approyal from |DPS—SEC.

2 of 4
This information is exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 and may be subject to exem tioh under
other UK information legislation. Refer disclosure requests to GCHQ on—
T0 P SECRET STRA P1 COMINT

