TOP SE CRE T//S TL W//COMINT/ORCONWOFORN

WORKING DRAFT

States, without a court order, either content or metadata from
communications links with either one Or both ends in the United States.
Furthermore, General Hayden pointed out that communications metadata
did not have the same level of constitutional protection as content and that
access to metadata of communications with one end in the United States
would signiﬁcantly enhance NSA’s analytic capabilities. General Hayden
suggested that the ability to collect communications with one end in the
United States without a court order would increase NSA’s speed and
agility. General Hayden stated that after two additional meetings with the
Vice President, the Vice President asked him to work with his Counsel,
David Addington.

(U) Presidential Authorization Drafted and Signed

 

(TS/ISI/IORJN F) According to General Hayden, the Vice President’s
Counsel, David Addington, drafted the firstAuthoriaation. General
Hayden described himself as the “subject matter expert” but stated that no
other NSA personnel participated in the drafting process, including the
General Counsel. He also said that Department of Justice (DOJ)
representatives were not involved in any of the discussions that he attended
and he did not otherwise inform them.

(TS/ISU/NF) General Hayden said he was “surprised with a small ‘5’ "
when the AuthorizatiOn was signed on 4 October 2001, and that it Only
changed the location from which NSA could collect communications.

Rules for minimizing US. person information still had to be followed.

(UIIFDUD) SIGINT Activity Authorized by the President

 

(TSﬂ'SI/fOR/NF) On 4 October 2001, the President delegated authority
through the Secretary of Defense to the Director of NSA to conduct
specified electronic surveillance on targets related to Afghanistan and
international terrorism for 30 days. Because the surveillance included wire
and cable communications carried into or out of the United States, it would
otherwise have required FISC authority.

(TS/ISI/ISTLWIJ’NF) The Authorization allowed NSA to conduct four types
of collection activity:

Telephony content

Internet content

T 01” S E CR E T//S TL W//COMI N T/OR CON/W 0F ORN

