(U) Metadata

TOP S E CRE T KS TL W//COMIN T/OR (C'CJ1\:’.-'il‘tr 0F ORN

WORKING DRAFT

cleared analysts. The purpoSe ofco~locating these individuals was to
improve collaborative analytic efforts.

(TS/ISI/INF) SID Data Acquisition. Through the life of the Program,
data collection was managed by Special Source Operations in SID, Data
Acquisition Directorate. Collection managers were responsible for putting
telephone numbers and email selectors on PSPdauthorized collection by
private sector companies and taking them off collection.

(TS/ISI/INF) The authority to collect bulk telephony and Internet metadata
signiﬁcantly enhanced NSA’s ability to identity activity that may have been
terrorist—related. Contact chaining is the process of building a network
graph that models the communication (e-maii, telephony, etc.) patterns of
targeted entities (peeple, organizations, etc) and their associates from the
communications sent or received by the targets.“5 Metadata is data that
describes other data, speciﬁcally information that describes the content,
events or networks associated with SIGINT targets. For example, for an
email message, it would include the sender and recipient email addresses.
It does not contain the subject line or the text of the email; they are

considered to be content. Likewise. For a telephone conversation, metadata
would include the called number and the calling number as well as the

duration ol‘thc call.

(TS/KSI/INF) Although NSA had the capability to collect bulk telephony
and Internet metadata prior to the PSP, its application was limited because
NSA did not have the authority to collect communications in which one
end tt_he number beina called or the recipient address of an e-mail) was in
the United States. PSP signiﬁcantly increased the data available to NBA
analysts and allowed them to create more thorough contact chaining. This
gave NSA the key to an early warning system—the ability to identify
individuals in the United States or individuals outside the US. using US.
teleconununications structures in contact with a foreign target, a terrorist.

(TSIISIIINF) Because metadata was not constitutionally protected, NSA
did not consider it to be as sensitive as content collection. Nevertheless,
processes were set up to document requests for metadata analysis and
justiﬁcations for conducting such analysis under Program authority. The

5 (TS/ISl/IOC/NF) Additional chaining can be performed on the associates” contacts to determine patterns in
the way a network of targets may communicate. Additional degrees of separation from the initial target are
referred to as “hops.” For example a direCt contact is one hop away from the target. A contact of the direct
centact would be described as being 2 hops away from the target. The resulting contact-graph is subsequently
analyzed for intelligence and to elevate}: potential investigative leads.

TOP SE CRE T //S T L Wf/C OMIN T /0R CONﬂV 0F GEN

13

