S 7309-0002
WORKING DRAFT

TOP SE CRE T//S TL Wf/C OMIN T/OR C ONW 0F URN

following describes the process used to obtain requests, conduct analysis,
and report results under the PSP. (See Appendix E for a ﬂowchart of the
end—towend process.)

(TS/ISIIINF) Requests for Information and Leads. Contact chaining
analysis requests were received from FBI, CIA, or NSA. Requests
typically took one of two forms, Requests for Information (RFI) and Leads.
RFIs were speciﬁc questions about a target’s telephone numbers or email
addresses, called “selectors" at NSA. Leads were more general requests
about a target’s contacts. Requestors submitted leads to discover new
investigative leads. Contact chaining requests were documented from the
inception of the PSP.

(TS/ISU/OCINF) Approvals to Chain. Prior to chaining, NSA
counterterrorism shiﬁ coordinators reviewed chaining requests to
determine whether they met criteria provided by the 00C and based on the
terms of the Authorization. They had to have enough information to
identify a terrorism nexus and demonstrate compliance with criteria
required by the Authorization before analysis could begin. Shift
coordinators either approved requests, approved them fer 1-hop (direct
contact) analysis, or denied them. Approved requests were passed to
analysts for contact chaining.

(TSHSl/JOCKNF) Analysis. NSA used a variety of tools to conduct
metadata analysis and view the results. NSA’s primary tool for conducting
metadata analysis, for PSP and traditional SIGINT collection, was
MAINWAY. MAIN WAY was used for storage, contact chaining, and for
analyzing large volumes of global communications metadata. At the
beginning of the PSP, only the “SIGINT Navigator" tool was available to
view MAINWAY output. Over time, new tools and new processes, such as
automated chaining alerting, were created to improve analysts‘ efficiency.
To obtain the most complete results, analysts used data collected under PSP
and nonuPSP authorities. Typicaliy, they analyzed networks with two
degrees of separation (two hops) from the target. Analysts determined if
resulting information was reportable.

(TS/ISI/JOCINF) In addition, an automated chaining alert process was
created to alert analysts of new potentially reportable selectors. Previously
approved selectors were compared to incoming MAINWAY data
authorized by the PSP, ED. 12333, or the FISC. Alerts of direct contacts
with approved selectors were reported to NSA analysts for further analysis
and potential reporting to PE] and CIA.

TOP SE CRE T MS' TL W/fCOMINT/OR CONWOFORN

14

