(U) Content

TOP SECRE T//S TL W//COMINT/0RCONWOFORN

WORKING DRAFT

(TS/ISU/NF) Storage. NSA stored metadata obtained under PSP
authorities in a protected database. Only cleared and trained analysts were
given access to PSP metadata.

(TS/ISI/IOCfNF) Reporting. Reports based on metadata analysis were
typically referred to as “tippers.” Tippers contained contact chaining
analysis results relevant to terrorism or with potential links to terrorism that
warranted the attention of the FBI or the CIA for further investigation.
Before releasing reports with US. person informatiOn, analysts obtained
permission to do so in accordance with established NSA dissemination
procedures.

(TS/KSl/IOCIN F) For each published report, NSA retained documentation
of the analysis, supporting RF 1 or lead information, and a justiﬁcation
statement explaining the link to terrorism. If a report was not published,
documentation was not retained. Counterterrorism personnel manually
updated information in a computer tracking system to reflect the
disposition of chaining requests.

(TS/ISI/INF) Collection and analysis of content is NSA’s traditional wav of
reporting meane—e-f—eeedrret—in-g SIGINT. Content generally refers to words
spoken during a telephone conversation or the written text of an email
message. NSA collection of the content of telephony and Internet
communications under the PSP improved its ability to produce intelligence
on terroristnrelated activity. For example, by allowing NSA access to links
carrying communicatiOns with one end in the United States, NSA
significantly increased its access to transiting foreign communications, i.e.,
with both communicants outside the United States. General Hayden
desoribed this as “the real gold of the Program." And, by allowing the
intercept of international communications, NSA was able to identify threats
within the United States.

(TS/ISIUNF) From the start of the Program until January 2007, NSA issued
490 reports based on PSP-derived content information. Also, as shewn
below, approximately 37,664 telephony and Internet selectOrs were tasked
for

PEP-authorized content collection during that time period. Only 3 percent
were U.S. targets. The vast majority

(92 percent) were foreign.

(TS/1‘ SI/IOCfN F)

TOP SE CRE T//S T L Wf/COMINT/ORCONJNOFORN

15

