TOP S ECRE Til/S T L W//COMINT/0RCO!WNOFORN

WORKING DRAFT

(TS/ISl/INF) Foreign selectors tasked for PSP content collection did not
require formal approvals or tasking packages. Analysts were responsible
for determining whether a foreign selector met the criteria tor for eicn

intelligence tennset—theAeH-‘Ie-ri-ea-t-ien-

(TS/ESI/I'NF) Collection. After a domestic selector was approved for PSP
eentent collection, it was identiﬁed as “tasked" in the STELLARWIND
Addresses Database by CTIAAD tasking managers who then emailed a
collection tasking request to the 880 Collection Manager for telephony
and Internet content collection. Foreign selector content collection
requests were sent directly to the 380 Collection Manager. They did not
require special approval.

(TSf/Sl/ISTLW/fN F) 380 collection managers were responsible for
ensuring that telephony and Internet cot___1tent selectors were put on or taken
oﬁ‘collection. For teiepheny—telepltonv content selectors, collection
managers sent content collection tasking instructions to private sector
companies. Private sector companies were responsible for implementing
tasking at front-end devices to obtain the required content collection. For
Intemet content selectors, collection managers sent content tasking
instructions directly to equipment installed at

company-controlled locations. Collected data was sent back to NSNSSO
and made available to analysts through the HYBRID voice processing
system for telephony content selectors or the PFNWALE database for
Internet content selectors. SSO collection managers worked with private
sector companies and the CT Product Line to ensure that collected data was
as intended and legally authorized.

 

 

 

 

(TS/(SHIN F) Storage. Content (voice or dBata) collected under PSP was
stored in protected partitions in existing NSA databases. Access to the
partitions was restricted to PSP-cleared personnel.

(TS/ISWNF) Reporting. After analyzing content data collected under
Presidential authority and identifying foreign intelligence information,
counterterrorism analysts wrote reports. After an initial review within the
CT Product Line, some reports were sent to SID Oversight and ComplianCe
(0&C) for a second review for U.S. person identities. 0&0 reviewers
determined whether the U S. identities in the report were necessary to
a__ssess or understand thef foIeign intelligence information being reported_ 0:
vas reguiied within the conduct oi recipient s Qtﬁeial duties. Ifan identity
was found to be unnecessary, it was not reported. Before any U. S. person
information was disseminated in reporting, internal NSA approvals were
obtained as required by United States Signals Intelligence Directive
SP0018 — Legal Complianm: and Minimization Procedures.

 

T 0P SECRET//S TL W/fCOMIN T All]? C ONA'VOF URN

I7

