S T—09— 0002
WORKING DRAFT

TOP SE CRE T//S T L W/fC OMIN T /0R C ON/N 0F ORN

understanding that the opinion was not shared with NSA because it was
considered conﬁdential legal advice to the President.

(TSf/SII/NF) The IG, GC, and Deputy GC agreed that their inability to read
the OLC opinion did not prevent or impair them from executing and
overseeing the Program. They were able to determine legality of the
Program independently from Do] (see Appendix D). However, the 1G said
that he found the secrecy surrounding the legal rationale to be “odd.”
Speciﬁcally, he said that it was “strange that NSA was told to execute a
secret program that everyone knew presented legal questions, without
being told the underpinning legal theory.” The [C3, GC, and Deputy GC all
stated that they had yet to see the full text of the original OLC opinion.

(Ul/FOUO) Access to the May 2004 Opinion

(U/IFOUD) In 2003 and 2004, the Do] Associate Deputy Attorney General
and the OLC Assistant Attorney General visited NSA to receive brieﬁngs
on the PSP. On 04 May 2004, NSA, at the request of the OLE Assistant
Attorney General, provided comments on the OLC’s draft opinion on the
Legality of the PSP. The OLC Assistant Attorney General submitted his
opinion on 06 May 2004.

(UIIFOUO) Access to the Presidential Authorization

 

(TS/ISI/fNF) As directed by the White House, access to the original
Presidential authorization and subsequent renewals was tightly controlled.

((3) The Vice President’s Counsel drafted the Authorizations and personally
delivered them to NSA. On a few occasions, NSA picked up the
Authorization at the White House.

(C) The first Authorization and subsequent renewals were kept in a safe in

the Director’s oﬁice. Initially, access was limited to General Hayden and a
few others, including three OGC attorneys, Program Managers, and certain
operational personnel. Those with access were not allowed to disseminate

the Authorizations.

(TS/fSI/INF) lmportantly, most NSA operations personnel, including the
Chief of the CT Product Line, who approved tasking for content collection,
were not allowed to see the actual authorization. Rather, OGC answered
targeting, information sharing, and implementation legal questions on an
“on call” basis for operators. When the Authorization changed, OGC

TOP SECRE T/VS T L W//COMINT/0RCON/NOFORN

22

