TOP SE CRE T //S T L W//COMINT/0R C ONAN 0F ORN

S1109-0002
WORKING DRAFT

{U/lFOUO) internet Communications

(TSiiSIii'NF) Al Qaeda and associated terrorist organizations have made
extensive use of the Internet. It is their preferred method of
communication. Terrorists use Internet communications, particularly web
based services, because they are ubiquitous, anonymous, and usually free
of charge. They can access Web~based email acc0unts and similar services
from any origination point around the world.

(TSii SliiN F) The United States is a major Internet communications hub.
The industry standard for characterization of the volume of Internet
communications is bandwidth, which measures the amount of digital data
transmitted in one second — bits per second or bps. For example, data
available from 2002 shows that at that time, worldwide international
bandwidth was slightly more than 290 Gbpsi. Of that total, less than 2.5
Gbps was between two regions that did not include the United States.

(TSiiSIiiN F) The United States is also home to computer servers providing
Internet communications services often used by terrorists. The majority of
known terrorist email addresses that NSA has tracked are hosted on U.S.-
based providers or foreign-managed providers hosted on servers in the

United States- tag-—
—-

(UiiFOUO) Evolution of NSA Partnerships with Private Sector

 

(U) History of NSA Partnerships with Private Sector

(TS/’iSI/iN F) As far back as World War II, NSA has had classiﬁed
relationships with carefully vetted U.S. companies that assist with essential
foreign intelligence-gathering activities. NSA maintains relationships with
over 100 U.S. companies. Without their cooperation, NSA would not be
able respond to intelligence requirements on a variety of topics important
to the United States.

(TSii SIiiN F) Two of the most productive SIG INT collection partnerships
that NSA has with the private sector are with COMPANY A and
COMPANY B. These two relationships enable NSA to access large
volumes of foreign-to-foreign communications transiting the United States

T(U) prs is an abbreviation for Gigabits per second, which can also be described as one billion bits per second
or 1,000,000,000 bps.

TOP SE CRE T //S TL W//COMINT/0R CON/NOFORN

28

