TOP S E CRE T/lS TL W//COMIN T/OR CONWOFORN

WORKING DRAFT

(Ul/FOUO) NSA Letters to Private Sector

(TSf/SWNF) The Director sent letters to private sector companies
requesting their assistance with the PSP, NSA OGC drafted the letters for
the Director, tracked each renewal of the President‘sguthorization and
modiﬁed the letters accordingly, and ensured the letters were delivered to
the companies. Between 16 October 2001 and 14 December 2006, NBA
Sent 147 request—for—assistance letters to private sector partners.

E] COMPANY A: 44 Letters
IE COMPANY B: 44 Letters
m COMPANY C: 46 Letters
E COMPANY D: 11 Letters
COMPANY E: 2 Letters

(TS/ISI-ECI/INF) 2001. In his ﬁrst PSP-related letter on 16 October 2001
to COMPANIES A, B and C, General Hayden stated that the National
Security Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation required their
assistance “to collect intelligence vital to the national security arising from
the events of 11 September 2001 ,” and speciﬁcally requested that they
“provide survey, tasking and collection against international trafﬁc, some
of which terminates in the United States; provide aggregated call record
information; and supply computer to computer data which can be used to
determine the communicants.” Their assistance was “needed to identify
members of international terrorist cells in the United States and prevent
future terrorist attacks against the United States." These ﬁrst letters also
stated that the requested assistance was authorized by the President with
the legal concurrence of the Attorney General, pursuant to Article II of the
Constitution.

(TS/ISI-ECI/IN F) 2002: Subsequent letters were sent to COMPANIES A,
B, and C by General Hayden (or his deputy) each time the President
reauthOrized the PSP. Throughout 2002, these written requests for
assistance referenced the 16 October letter; repeated the need to provide
the Presidentially-authorized assistance; emphasized that such assistance
was necessary to counter a future terrorist attack; and stated that such
assistance was reviewed by the Attorney General and had been determined
to be a lawful exercise of the President’s powers as Commander-in-Chief.
Starting in mid~2003, the wording of the letters was revised but in
substance remained the same.

(TS/fSl-ECI/INF) Two request letters for assistance were sent to private
sector COMPANY E. The first letter was sent on 26 February 2002, and

TOP SECRE T//S TL W//COMINT/0R CON/NOFORN

31

