51109-0002
WORKING DRAFT

TOP SE CRE Tﬂ'S T L W//COMINTKORCON/WOFORN

 

 

(TS/fSII/NF) Until March 2004, NSA considered its
collection of bulk lnternet metadata under the PSP to be
legal and appropriate. Specifically NSA leadership,
including 060 lawyers and the lG, interpreted the terms of
the Authorization to allow NSA to obtain bulk Internet
metadata for analysis because NSA did not actually
"acquire” communications until specific communications
were selected. ln other words, because the Authorization
permitted NSA to conduct metadata analysis on selectors
that met certain criteria, it implicitly authorized NSA to
obtain the bulk data that was needed to conduct the
metadata analysis.

(TS/fSl/WF) On 11 March 2004, General Hayden had to
decide whether NSA would execute the Authorization
without the Attorney General‘s signature {lV-A/32-11).
General Hayden described a conversation in which David
Addington asked, "Mil you do it (lV-A/SE— 11)?” At that time,
General Hayden also said that he asked Daniel Levin,
Counsel to the Attorney General, in March 2004 it he
needed to stop anything he was doing. Mr. Levin said that
he did not need to stop anything (lV-A/32-7 and lV—A/32a-
7&8). After conferring with NSA operational and legal
personnel, General Hayden stated that he decided to
continue the PSP because 1) the members of Congress he
briefed the previous day, 10 March, were supportive of
continuing the Program, 2) he knew the value of the
Program, and 3) NSA lawyers had determined the Program
was legal.

 

(TSl/Si/KNF) Eight days later on 19 March 2004, the President rescinded the
authority to collect bulk Internet metadata and gave NBA one week to stop
collection and block access to previously collected bulk lntemet metadata. NBA
did so on 26 March 2004. To close the resulting collection gap, 130.] and NSA
immediately began efforts to recreate this authority in what became the PRlTT
order. By January 2007, the remaining three authorities had also been replicated in
FISC orders: the Business Records (BR) Order, the Foreign Content Order, and the

TOP SECRE T Al’S T L W//COMINT/0RCONWOFORN

38

