TOP SE C RE T/fS T L W/fCOMIN T /0R CONﬂV 0F ORN

WORKING DRAFT

(TS/ISll/NF) NSA risked losing ﬂexibility in the means of
collection, given that facilities and collection accesses were
complex and in constant flux.

(TSI/SUINF) In executing the PRJTT and Business Records Orders,
the FiSC’s and DoJ’s consistently increasing demands for
information took NSA analysts away from target-related duties.

(TS/lSlf/NF) The process imposed by the FISA statute was not able
to handle the large volume of NBA requests for FlSC authorization
needed after
11 September 2001.

(TS/ISIIINF) Because OLC’s May 2004 opinion found that the
existing Authorization for content collection was lawful, there was
no pressing need to ﬁnd an alternative legal vehicle.

(TS/ISU/NF) in a letter dated 21 February 2006, the NSA GC expressed the
aforementioned concerns, among others, to the Acting Assistant Attoniey
General Suggesting that:

“ . . . . now might be the right time to seek substantial revisions to
the FISA. The purpose of the legislation was to protect the
privacy of U.S. persons who could be subjected to surveillance,
either intentionally or incidentally. Twenty-seven years later, the
United States Government ﬁnds itself obtaining FISA orders so
that it can carry out surveillance on foreign intelligence targets
who are outside the United States and, more often than not,
communicating only with others outside the United States. This
serves no U.S. person’s privacy interests, was never anticipated by
the statute’s drafters, and diverts valuable resources from the fight
against terrorism. The FISA needs to be simpliﬁed and
streamlined."

(TS/ISI/I'NF) Ultimately, Do] decided to pursue a FISC order for content
collection wherein the traditional FISA deﬁnition of a “facility" as a
speciﬁc telephone number or email address was changed to encompass the
gateway or cable head that foreign targets use for communications.
Minimization and probable cause standards would then be applied. As
with the PRTT and Business Records orders, NSA collaborated with Do] to
prepare the application and declarations and provided the operational
requirements needed to continue effective surveillance.

(TS/fSl/INF) After 18 months of concerted effort and coordination, the
F150 ultimately accepted the theory for foreign selectors but rejected it for

TOP SE CRE T//S T L W/fC OMIN T /0R CON/N 0F URN

41

