TOP S E CRE T /t'S T L W/fCOMINT/ORCONWOFORN

WORKING DRAFT

II. REVIEW CATEGORIES

(U) ONE: ESTABLISHMENT OF THE AUTHORITY

(Uf/FO U0) Immediately after the attacks off] September 2001, NSA considered
how to work within existing SIGINT authorities to counter the terrorist threat
within the United States and adjusted SIGIN T processes accordingly. Shortly
thereaﬁ‘er; in response to a White House request, the Director of NSA identified
SIGINT collection gaps. The Counsel to the Vice President used this information
to draft the Presidential authorization that established the PSP.

(U) Actions Taken After 9/1 1

 

(TS/lSUfNF) On 14 September 2001, three days after terrorist attacks in the
United States, General Hayden approved the targeting of terrorist-
associated foreign telephone numbers on communication links between the
United States and foreign countries where terrorists were known to be
operating. Only speciﬁed, pro-approved numbers were allowed to be
tasked for collection against U.S.~originating links. He authorized this
collection at Special Collection Service and Foreign Satellite sites with
access to links between the United States and countries of interest,
including Afghanistan. According to the Deputy General Counsel, General
Hayden determined by 26 September that any Afghan telephone number in
contact with a US. telephone number on or after 26 September was
presumed to be of foreign intelligence value and could be disseminated to
the FBI.

(TS/lSllfN F) NSA DGC said General Hayden’s action was a lawful
exercise of his power under Executive Order 03.0.) 123 33, United States
Intelligence Activities, as amended. The targeting of communication links
with one end in the United States was a more aggressive use of ED. 12333
authority than that exercised by former Directors. General Hayden was
operating in a unique environment in which it was a widely held belief that
additional terrorist attacks on US. soil were imminent. General Hayden
said this was a “tactical decision.”

TOP SE CRE Tf/S T L W/fCOMINTfORCONﬂVOFORN

