TOP SE CRE T as TL WXXCOMINT/ORCON/NOFORN

S1109-0002
WORKING DRAFT

(Ul/FDUO) On 2 October 200 l , General Hayden briefed the House
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) on this decision and
later informed members of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence
(SSCI) by telephone. He had also informed DCI George Tenet.

(TS) At the same time NSA was assessing collection gaps and increasing

efforts against terrorist targets immediately after the 11 September attacks, .
it was responding to Department of Defense ([3013), Director of Central
Intelligence Community Management Staff questions about its ability to
counter the new threat.

(U) Need to Expand NSA Authority

 

(Ut/FOUO) General Hayden said that soon aﬁer he told Mr. Tenet about
NBA actions to c0unter the threat, Mr. Tenet shared the information with
the “Oval Ofﬁce.” Mr. Tenet relayed that the Vice President wanted to
know if NSA could be doing more. General Hayden replied that nothing
else could be done within existing NSA authorities. In a follow-up
telephone conversation, Mr. Tenet asked General Hayden what could be
done if he had additional authorities. General Hayden said that these
discussions were not documented.

(UI/FOUO) NSA Identifies SiGiNT Collection Gaps

(TSI/SI/INF) To respond to the Vice President, General Hayden met with
NSA personnel who were already working to identify and fill SIGINT
collection gaps in light of the recent terrorist attacks. General Hayden
stated that he met with personnel to identify which additional authorities
would be operationally useful and technically feasible. In particular,
discussions focused on how NSA might bridge the “international gap.” An
NSA Technical Director described that gap in these terms:

"Here is NSA standing at the (LS. border looking ontwardfor
foreign threats. There is the FBI looking within the United
States for domestic threats. But no one was looking at the
foreign threats coming into the United States. That was a
huge gap that NSA wanted to cover. ”

(TS/fSI/INF) Possible Solutions. Among other things, NSA considered
how to tweak transit Collection—the collection of communications
transiting through but not originating or terminating in the United States.
NSA personnel also resurfaced a concept proposed in 1999 to address the

TOP SECRET/115' TL W/fCOMINT/ORCONA‘VOFORN

