unique as a_jointly manned; jointly tasked DNI site.

[BHBI] Following DIENBA's dictum that making our foreign partners more capable
also makes NBA more capable; NBA personnel assigned to JBA are teaching their
END counterparts new tools and techniques in adyanced signals and protocol
analysis and DNI exploitation. Eut this is far more than an academic exercise --
training is being conducted in the course of' executing tasked mission; currently
one NBA and 'two END tasks. END senior leadership recently commended JBA for
their efforts; particularly the contribution that JBA's Afghan GBM** task has made
to one of' END's highest priority task; Force Protection in Afghanistan. FDENBAT
IBGB Mission Management has assigned primary responsibility to JBA for 1D beams
on seyen satellites; and JBA is continually Surveying these beams and feeding the
resulting metadata to NBA systems.

[BHBI] BUBLAG continues in its traditional role as BIGINT liaison to the
Federal Republic of" Germany This role has been greatly facilitated by BUBLAG's
new location on Mangf'all Kaserne. NBA personnel interact daily with END
counterparts; coordinating policy conducting technical exchanges; expanding the
range of'cooperation in BIGINT and deepening the partnership in many ways. The
ayailability of"BUBLAG's secure Ty’TG facility on Mangf'all Kaserne allows for a close
and continuing exchange with our partner based on an unprecedented series of'
VTGs. Additionally yisiting NBA technical experts haye immediate access to END
counterparts; proyiding for an unmatched exchange of'expertise.

[BHBI] BUBLAG is now established on a solid foundation for years to come. In the
past year; DIRNBAJ BID's Deputy Director; and the Principal Director of' Foreign
Affairs haye yisited to add emphasis to their charge to Chief] BUBLAG 'to broaden
and deepen the BIGINT relationship with the German partner; moying in new and
exciting directions. These efforts haye already begun to bear fruit and the future of'
this productiye partnership seems assured.

 

”(Ill Notes:

ITD = Information Technology Directorate

NGEUR. = NBAJ'GBB Europe

ISzL = Installations 1'5; Logistics

GBM' = a type of" digital cellular comms [Global Bystem for Mobile
Communications}

[UHFDUD] This article is reprinted from May's Foreign Aﬁhfns Digest

3 of-Ll

