TOP SECRETIICOMINTHREL TO USA. FVEYH20320108

(U) APPENDIX A: Assessing Overall Performance

 

{UHFOUO} Customers request SIGINT by specifying the “essential elements of information“
(EEIs) that they want to uncover. The National Intelligence Priorities Framework (NIPF) maps
each F.F.l into one of three bands (A. B. or (7.} of successively decreasing concern according to
general topic, and assigns a l-S priority based on the combination of the topic and speciﬁc
geopolitical or non-state entity involved. Responsive SIGINT is delivered in several forms. but
serialized reporting dominates. and so one indicator of end-to-end mission performance is the
percentage ot‘ requested EEls for which at least some responsive reporting is provided (i.e.. tin-
ii'if! citation rote).

{UirFfJUtJJ At a macro-level. the overall citation rate for ”Band A“ F.F.ls should be greater than
that for ”Band B." which in turn should exceed that for “Band C". Beyond that. performance
against each “Band A” topic is also weighed in accordance with the Following ﬁrst-order nrles.
Performance is paw if a “Band :"1 topic‘s rate doesn't even exceed the overall “Band B" rate.
Performance is apart if a topicis rate is above the overall “Band B" rate. but less than the overall
“Band A" rate. Performance isfar'r or good it‘a topic's rate is at or above the overall “Band A"
rate, with the latter also requiring that the rate for the topic's “priority l'" lilils be higher than that
For the topics F.F.Is generally.

{L' ) Citation rates reﬂect only the existence of responsive SIGINI'. and not its impact Moreover,
they dorft directly account for requests that are addressed entirely by other than serialized
reporting, and they can be skewed by careless recordkeeping or differences in granularity
between EEls. Therefore. quarterly citation rate assessments are complemented with two
broader1 more subjective. and more manpower intensive views of customer outcomes and
satisfaction.

{Uri-"FOlJOl The ﬁrst is a quarterly, manual assessment of pchonnanee against each NIPF “Band
A" topic that includes niche interactions that don't involve lit-its as well as deliverables beyond
serialized reporting. Pert‘onnauce is graded on the extent to which records show that responsive
information was pushed to or pulled by a customer. and sampling suggests that the records that
lie deliverables to requests are accurate. and sampling suggests that the infonnation delivered
was germane vice just tangential. Perﬁmnanee is poor if responsiveness is well belovir average
{relative to that for “Band A“ tasks as a whole). Heal: if responsiveness is somewhat below
averageferr if responsiveness is average or better. and gum! if responsiveness overall is average
or better and is better still against high priorities.

{L'ir'FOUO} The second is a quarterly survey of roughly 20 intelligence consumers. speciﬁed by
position based on their ability to speak knowledgably and authoritatively about the SIGINT
contributions to key civil or military customer's. Those solicited represent the uniﬁed combatant
commands and the Joint Staff; the Departments of State, Treasru'y, Commerce. Energy? and
Homeland Seourity; the Central Intelligence and Defense Intelligence Agencies the Federal
Bureau of Investigation; the Drug Enforcement Administration; the National Counterterrorism
Center; the US- Trade Representative; and the White [louse Situation Room.

TOP SECRETHCOMINTHREL T0 USA, FVEYH203ZD108 l0

