TOP SECRETHCOMINTHREL TO USA. FVEYH203201£|8

(U) BACKGROUND

 

{Uri-“FDUDl America invests in intelligence programs to detect. and to provide full and tinrely
answers to questions about. the hidden pursuits of persons. states. or organizations. In the case
of signals intelligence (SIGINT). the expectation is that surveillance of targeted electronic
signals and systems will yield insight that’s wonh the costly czqtabilities and operations needed
to obtain it. For over 50 years. from World War I] through the- global war on terrorism. this
investment has been justified. but the mission is still rightly judged by the answers it delivers.
The implied business model is to position the mission to cover enough priority targets to ensure a
steady stream of valued products and services for decision tankers and other SIGHT consumers.

(ti) This strategic plan seeks to maintain or enhance the missions value in light of the challenges

and opportunities of the unfolding network age. it ﬂames and establishes several key aims
and assigns responsibility for actions needed to attain them. At the highest level. success is
deﬁned as stable or improved responsiveness to customer needs. while doing best against the
targets that matter most and avoiding strategic surprise.I

(ll) The plan was developed through the on-Iinc collaboration of over 250 SIGIN’i” practitioners
and partners. working within a homework created by the chief SlGlN'I' strategist. It focuses on a
small set of acts that should pay large dividends, and introduces data-driven processes to track
progress, spot problems. and prompt adjustments. It‘s how we‘ll continue to rho-itemize the way
we prepare for. perform, and appraise SIGIN'I' operations in a world in transformation.

{SHRED Since 2003 the intelligence community has been guided by a national intelligence
priorities framework {NIPF} that maps customer needs into bands (A. B, and C '1 of successively
lower concern. “Band A" topics include those strategic. asymmetric. and other threats that have
the potential to greatly harm the LIS. or its interests. Within each topic. a l-S priority is assigned
to speciﬁc geopolitical or non—state entities of interest. with I being the highest. Of" course. not
all intelligence questions are necessarily best. or even reasonably. probed by SIGHT means.
Potential customers are asked to request SIGINT only when they can characterize its expected
contribution as supplementary. substantial. key. or extraordinary.

{Str'REL} Since October of 2005. a national intelligence sterling)r has provided additional
direction. Its ﬁve overarching mission objectives are to defeat terrorism. prevent and counter the
spread of weapons of mass destruction. bolster the growth of democracy, penetrate hard targets.
and anticipate developments of strategic concern. Di" course. neither these nor the roster of
“Band A" topics represent a radical shift from prior thinking. For several years. the SIGINT
system has pursued these issues. intensitying efforts to harvest data From computers. Internet
trafﬁc, and other peel-retired communications in the process- As the chart shows, there has in

 

I (U) As orrtlincd in Appendix A. curiae-end permanence it ill be judged by quantitative and qualitative

analysis of enslnrner requests and mission deliverables. and by authoritative customer sun-Q's.

TOP SECRETHCOMINTHREL T0 USA, FVEYHEO320108 2

