TOP SECRETHCOMINTHREL TO USA. FVEYH20320108

fact been signiﬁcant growth in the percentage of customer questi ons. and especially high priority
ones. that are being at least partiallyr answered by serialized SIG INT reporting.‘

|'II\ I'I—————+——— —£'l—-f—-— —-&3‘—— “——--——l— A .I—I ————— .I A1 Iflfn.‘ J— I"? '91-'41.“
50% ' 'lziintd ft" RL‘qUL'H'l‘i
I55“$ 4

till-Dds
$09k -
35% _‘ Handli Requests
30% 4 Hand L'“ Requests
25% 1
20% 4
159i- 1

UHFOUO I
10% , a 1

 

 

03F? 04F? Cl‘lF't‘ 02W 93F? Ont-FY 01W Q2F't‘ QBFY UAFY 01 PI" DEFY 03W
2004 2004 zoos aorta sacs zoos zoos zoos zoos ram 200? 20:)? sac? . ,
Insular regimes often

remains at a premium. as is information about asymmetric threats such as weapons of mass
destruction. hostile cyber activities, and some terrorist organizations. Moreover. past gains are
always an der pressure from the relentless evolution of targets and technology.

{'I‘S.«".-"Sl."'r'REL) For instance, as Internet routing and service nodes become more dispersed, some
lucrative SIGIN'I' chokepoints vanish and it takes more access points or over-the-net operations
to maintain the same coverage. As strong cryptography is applied to identity management,
software attestation, protecting data at rest, and securing network metadata, we must comparably
expand cryptographic enabling, sensitive commercial partnerships. and eryptanalytic processing
capabilities. As users become more mobile and more anonymous. we must introduce new
association and pattern detection technology. lest targets of interest he lost or overlooked.

{Sn-'8 L’r'REL'] At the same time. global modernization makes intelligence on economic. political.
and other civil issues more valuable, and relevant targets tend to favor networks. [ntemet-cenh'ic
activities such as e-commerce. e—votin I, and on—net industrial and utility control beg to be minerL
even as we expand existing operations against both public and private nets. Mounting interest in
cyber security and the on-line aspects of crime and extremism also spur demand for network
stu'veillance, as well as more interaction with atypical customers Such as state and local
goventments, and tighter partnerships with consumers whose own target knowledge can help
steer and interpret collection or whose operations can be "cued" by SIGINT.

{SHRED Some efforts to recruit, train. and direct Islamic and other extremists are already
entrusted to networks, and so will be many plans and acts of the PRC. as it rises to be a near-peer
competitor. Ruling institutions of even rogue states make some use of Internet technology. as do
the scientists and proliferators with which they work. In fact. Fewer and fewer targets of any
stripe or location are far removed from a colleague, confidant, or courtederate that’s in the know
and on the net.

 

2

(l') “‘Qnestin-ns" are defined here as desired essential elements of tnlttrntaltnn specified in standing
(“Gall-5T or I-"lSlfﬁ‘ requirements. They‘re considered "addressed" vi hen cited in serialized reporting issued dili'ntj.r
the quarter.

TOP SEC RETHCOMINTHREL T0 USA, FVEYHEO3ZD108

LA)

