TOP SECRETHCOMINTHREL TO USA. FVEYH203201IJB

(U) VISION. VECTORS, & VALUES

 

{L'} Our mission is to answer questions about threatening activities that others mean to keep
hidden. This is the essence of what we accomplish for the American people. whether we're
supporting the global war on terrorism. inﬁltrating the leadership circles of strategic rivals or
rogue states. or anticipating geopolitical and target technology trends.

{Uri-DUO} Our vision. or aspiration. is to utterly master the foreign intelligence implications of
networks and network technology. Even conservative people and institutions ﬁnd themselves
having to entrust their plans and operations to networks or else so limit their ability to acquire
information. issue instructions. and move people. money. materiel. and ideas as to risk
irrelevance. The mission must he planned. equipped. and executed for best effect. against the
objectives that matter most. in this brave new digital world.

{U} At the heart of the task is the need to Sense. and make sense of. systems. traffic. users. and
various types and levels of organizations. This is a circular and fast moving process. New
insight leads to better sensing. which leads to still greater insight. and so on — sometimes in
months. but sometimes in minutes.

{Sr‘r’SIr’r’REL} Today. most of what we access goes unexplored or unexploited. Humans can
neither follow network flows in real-time nor forge intelligence gold from an accumulation of
isolated data points whose worth is only apparent when combined with one another and with
what others may know. Our global sensors need to be able to think For themselves and talk to
one another instantaneously. Our processing systems need to automatically ﬁnd meaning in and
across vast and dispersed data sets. Our analysts need new skills and new tools. and need to
apply them in new ways. oﬁen in concert with customers. Our business processes need to
promote data-driven decision-making and more disciplined end-to-end planning.

{L3} This will not happen without leadership and the courage to ask if the practices and stmctures
that serve us well today will continue to do so in the titture. At the same time. some immutable
values must continue to inﬂuence our daily choices and behavior. All military and civilian
employees are called to commit to law-ﬁllncss. honesty. integrity. fairness. accountability.
loyalty. collaboration. innovation. and teaming. As we in the SIGINT mission grapple with the
peculiar risks and rewards of the times and tasks at hand. a few implications of these
comminnents warrant special comment:

i- ii.) SIGINT professionals must hold the moral high ground. even as terrorists or dictators
seek to exploit our ﬁ'eedoms. Some of our adversaries will say or do anything to advance
their nature; we will not. All employees must have tmcompromising devotion to personal and
institutional integrity doing the light thing. every time. regardless ofhow difﬁcult it is.

r ([5) SIGIN'I' professionals must be honest with themselves. colleagues. superiors. and
oversccrs. When something won’t work. isn't working. hasn't worked. or went wrong. we
need to say so. with respect. but also with unmistakable clarity. We then ﬁnd a different way
forward.

'r {'L') SIGINT professionals need to grow and prosper as mission assets and as individuals.
We encourage career-long learning. periodic stretch assignments. and a balance between
work and home life that honors duty to family. conununity. and sell'as well as to comrtry.

TOP SEC RETﬂCOMINTHREL T0 USA, FVEYH20320108 4

