TOP SECRETHCOMINTHREL TO USA. FVEYH20320108

 

 

 

(U) KEY AIMS & ACTIONS

 

 

(L‘] We seek to maximize the SIGINT mission‘s value to the nation in the context of the
intelligence priorities and technological realities of the network age. Fortunately. no matter what
streams of operational and engineering initiatives — from the incremental to the transfonnational
— are running their course at a particular time. a few core structures can channel them for best
effect. The following goals are intended to dojust that. As implementation ot’the plan proceeds.
the responsibilities described below will be further decomposed into subtasks for various mission
elements and levels. Ultimately. much of the daily work of the SlGlNT enterprise will beneﬁt.
including the immediate mission imperatives presented in Appendix B.

{UitFOUm Goal 1: Annually improve SIGINT on NIPF “priority l" tasks and “Band A“ topics
in geneml. as measured by more even performance across topics and rising performance were“.1

 

A. {II} Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in October 200?. the Inission’s Deputy
Director for Customer Relationships (DDCR) will assess SIGINT mission performance
against NlPF “Band A" tasks using methods outlined in Appendix A. the DDt'R witt
provide the mission ‘.r senior feeders with quarterﬂt‘ "Band xi " Jirerte-rtemace reports and
qitortet'ifv identification of'mr- or tttiti’et'-seti.vﬁeti‘ "H'mtrb'l tasks.

It. {IUJJEFOUO} Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in FY08. the DDCR will lead the
missions Deputy Dinectors for Analysis and Production (DDAP) and Data Acquisition
tDDDA). and Associate Deputy Director for SiGlN'l' Development [ADD SIGDEV) through
joint reviews of un- or tinder-satisﬁed “Band .-"L"' tasks to ﬁnd and address problems. "the
1)!)1' 'R wilt provide the .‘n‘iiiil‘i‘i' Director with qztttrteriﬂv improvement pious and progress
reports. radiating cortcttrrence. cacti-sis. and commitments __fi'om the DiMi’. DDDA, and
AIM) ﬁ'tt'iDti'i-i.

C. (L-“t‘FOIJ‘Oi Responsibility and Accountability: By .r’tpril 2008. the DDDA will begin
tracking the current and expected purpose and [using documented business rules)
productivity of lﬂ. 2m]. and 3"1 party SlCilN'l' accesses." Hie. DDDA u'iii provide tire .H'I'UINT
Director with qttartertlv cottiparis'wts of the "Hittitdil " tastier given to. and the disposition and
use of tire reriti'trttit c‘tii'i'ectionfroiti. each access. highlighting ittt- or tinder-A'ttttsﬁed tasks.

D. t'lJtt'FOUO) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in FY09. the DDDA will
systematically reengincer, retire, or replace (directly or though a partner) chronically

 

I.

[LTith'JlJD] While perfonnancc against "Bond a." topics is our benchmark- no will continue to work all
high priority tasks. and lesser “Band BL and "Band C5 issues when it's affordable and plays to our strengths.

l [Ut'i‘FDlJ-D] "Access" as used here refers to data sources that are at least partially Funded via the collection

and operations investment portfolio. The purpose or productivity of" an access may relate to tipping. stecnng. or
otherwise enabling other collectors. as opposed to collecting targeted iniomiation directly- Uniqueness and
untapped potential are also Factors to consider its is the expected contribution of an access in the event of a
reasonably Ill-rely and signiﬁcant Future cnsis or concern.

TOP SEC RETHCOMINTHREL T0 USA, FVEYHEO320108 5

