TOP SECRETHCOMINTHREL TO USA. FVEYii203201UB

underpeﬂhnning accesses. 'i'he H0021 n-‘ii'i nnnttaitlv provide the SIUINT Director with a
ntnitiveor "access enhancement" {thin in: fatri of'the program httihi' cycle.

{U} Responsibility and .r‘ltceountability: Beginning in FY03, the Agency’s Chief Technology,r
Ofﬁcer (CTD'J - with the hill support of relevant collection, analysis, and customer
engagement elements will start to systematically instrument SIGHT taskingH ingestion.
processing, analysis, and delivery systems to automatically tag data so that its sotuce and
subsequent processing and handling can be associated with some categorization of its
ultimate use or intelligence value. "the f '1‘?) mi! prot-‘itie the Agency‘s Senior Leadership
ti'iih sentt'snntmrti imports on the percentng' tritium accessed that can he an marine-intact

{UM-"01.10) Goal 2: F ield an analytic workforce that promptly and methodieaily discovers and
exploits priority secrets entrusted to networks worldwide and helps customers turn this insight
into significant national outcomes,

A.

{L't’tTOUOl Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning with FY03, the C TO will enable
improved information discovery by orchestrating annual increases in the proportion of newly,r
acquired and archived data and metadata that can be readily searched and retrieved by
analysts across the enterprise using standard workstations. The t’ 'i'l') n-‘t'i'i (let-140p haseiine
inetmrt'es of ctrcean’hie than. query titties. and intent! iiiflh'ettiijv. and provide the .S't’Gh'i’l"
Director trtth rninntn’ improvement reports. beginning at the end nfh'lt'iﬁ’i’.

iL'it'FOUO) Responsibility and Accountability: [n FY08 and out, the NSAt’CSS Senior
Language and NSNCSS Senior Intelligence hudmrities will maintain a global training
requirement for all eryptologic language and intelligence analysts perfonning various classes
of missions and functions: will identify the types of learning activities that meet the
requirement, based on current and projected needs and workforce statistics; and will provide
data on organizational compliance to SIG [NT mission and Agency leadership. The Mist {1153;
Senior {anytime and inteiitgenee Authorities and fine managers of rein-(mt ntgniit'miitnn-
u-iii ensure that at Feast 30% of anti c.-t;_t-ptningt't.' intelligence and inngnuge ninth-six wit!
engage in ten hours ofpreaerihed Gppi‘ﬂt-‘e’t'l' professionni dereioptnent et-‘ery two yams, and
that in feast MFA cifiwtgnnge and inieh'igence unuhnts wanting the roantartan-orient mission
u'iii he engaged in enhanced or specialized training an inn- giren time."

{L'h‘FOUO} Responsibility and Accomttability: Beginning in FY03, the DD-CR and the
DDAP will cultivate client-consultant relationships with more customers to facilitate new
and more productive tasking and consumption of SIGINT products and services The DDAP
u'iii provide the b't’tiii-‘i’i' Director with on onnttoi report on the number. disposition. and
doc-tintettted impact ofanaitn'ts serving it'tﬁtii-tt'nte constihanct' assigntitetns.

(ChREL) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in FY03. the DDAP will increase
the practice of forward deploying analysis into customer workspaces to Facilitate real-time
analysis and iterative consultation where needed. The iJiJaiP wtii provide the Shift-VF
Director with qiictrierbt .t'tnninttries nitrite number and incntinn ofﬁ'trwani depiqred antihista-
and their ripercttit'ntrti' ittipaci (is assessed h}- ettsinnter .‘u'Uf't-‘t'fj-i‘i.

(L'.-’-"FOUO) Responsibility and Accountability: Beginning in FY03. the DDAP will
systematically hand off mature analytic tasks to qualiﬁed partners when doing so increases

 

s

{U} The latteris already a requirement of the Nationai Counterterrorism Intelligence Plan.

TOP SEC RETHCOMINTHREL T0 USA, FVEYH20320108 I5

