TOP SECRETHCOMINTHREL TO USﬁtI FVEYH20320108

the effectiveness or eliliciencgt»r of the resources available to the US govemment and the
SIGINT mission. iiie. iJDz'li’ wiii provide the SiCii:'t"Ti)irect‘or with on ommoi report on tin:
ratio: so 'fronciiised" ot-‘er lite Jorr‘mitttts ﬁxcni 't-‘eor. how any recovered resources it'ere
reentpiot—‘eal and tin: customer master‘s oft'totii.

{L' 3 Goal 3: Annually increase the use of business cases to allocate pal,r and non-pen,r dollars and
scarce skills for better returns on investment than alternative ways of using the same resources:1

A. (L'iiFOlJOl Responsibility and Accomttahilily: Beginning in FY03. the chief SIGIN'I'
strategist will identify those skills that. for lack of critical mass. keep as from meaningfullyr
migrating to new not centric tools and techniques, even if resources are adequate to expand
existing types of collection, processing, or analysis operations. i-‘rinr in eucit Jean's progrmn
buit'ti tjwie. tire einef .‘S'it'ilit‘i' strategist at” provide int-'errmem port/bite tonnage” and the
mtiii‘i'i” mission's seiner it’ﬂdt’i's'iiip trial: on ammo! it's-i of want roies- whose. monuments rm:
to be considered "it'cw'ce resources "for business pionmng purposes.

B. {if} Responsibility and Aecottntability: Beginning in FY03, the DDCR and the ADD
SIG DEV will f' use insight into technology and geopolitical trends and then clearly articulate
the prioritized implications for the SIGIN'I' mission Prior to emit year's program hriiiri
tit-tie. rite. iJL'IFR and the dim Sit'iiJiz'lr’ triii provide im-‘estmeni purtﬁiiio ntonogets with
easiit’ eonsmnuhie and oeitwtobie pitimring guidance aimed oi avoiding tet'imoiogieoi or
strategic .mrprise tmri optinmiit' ortieritigpotemioi investments.

C. {'L') Responsibility and Accotmtability: Beginning with the FWD-15 program build, the
Collection 8:. Operations, Processing & Exploitation. Analysis & Production, and Mission
Management itn'esunent ponfolio managers will revalidate or construct new business cases
covering ever larger proportions of their pay and non-pay submissions. As part of end:
lit-car's pmgmm imiiti Qt'cie. each of titefour int-'esimem monogam- wiii .tztiimit business- cases
to tire Sit'iiit’i' Director covering attire ofiiteirpuriﬁiiio than previous integer-s.

 

 

{U} The national intelligence program allocates pay and non-pay dollars to the SIGINT mission
through seven investment portfolios. As discussed below. the work of“ each must be tailored For
success in a changing world. Ultimately. desired customer outcomes demand certain opetational
concepts and ﬁmeti ens. These require sets of' personnel and technical capabilities and supporting
infrastructure all playing the right role at the right time as scripted by system engineering.

{ll} Collection and Operations

{’I'SiiSliiREL] Historically, we‘ve arrayed independent accesses against various streams of point-
to-point communications. As we shift ﬁ'om intercepting links to exploiting networks though.
multiple collection platforms must be engineered and outﬁtted to work in CDﬂCL‘I‘L and oFleu in
real-time, Vast quantities of message externals and other network ntetadata must be Itan'ested.

 

l“ [1]] Such business cases should take into account naiional priorities, geopolitical and technology forecasts,

mission assessment data. and defensible cost information.

TOP SECRETiiCOMINTHREL T0 USA, FVEYHED320108 'i

