TOP SECRETHCOMINTHREL TO USA. FVEYH203201£IB

often via bulk “midpoint" collection of global backbones. Vendors and service providers must
also be leveraged to obtain rnetadata and other targeting and vulnerability information, as well as
trai‘lic. “Endpoint" operations must expand, to retrieve more targeted data directly and to alter
routing or encryption For the beneﬁt of passive sensors.

{Sir‘SIr‘r’REL} Midpoint collectors will still be used to acquire content (and not just metadatal. but
with less success and at greater cost as trafﬁc volumes and velocities rise. Mobile and tactical
systems. covert and clandestine programs. and overhead assets will continue to perform their
specialized tasks until the spread of network technology offers a better play, and will he
modemined as the mission requires or when automation or new technology can significantly
reduce long-term manpower or life-cycle support costs. Endpoint methods will he used for more
ELINT and F13 tasks, gathering data on some weapons or emitters before they're deployed?

{if} Processing and Esploitatinn

{Sr'r'Slr'i'RELl If collection operations arotnid the globe are to work in tandem in real-time, then
the processing and exploitation fabric of the SIGINT system to ust provide for distributed storage
and robust messaging. Fast, ﬂexible, front-end processors must spot targets based on patterns,
events, or metadata rather than pro-deﬁned selectors or brute force scanning of content. High
performance computing systems must extract meaning liotn huge data sets and to negate data
encryption and computer access controls.

{Sr'.-'Slr'.-‘RJ:'L_) New developments will stress standardized interfaces that let diverse applications
share infrastructure, and will favor automation and oli-the—slrelt‘ technology over manual
processes and point solutions. New SIGINT system architec-uu'es will de—couple event detection
Erom follow-on reaction and processing, so that applications can he added or deleted with little
impact to ongoing operations and so that sensors and processors can serve many tasks rather than
one operational stovepipe. All this — and increased use of remotely conﬁgurable commercial
hardware — will also cut the time needed to retool or refocus technical in fi'astruclure as customer
needs, target behaviors, or technical constraints change; they'll reduce life-cycle costs as well.

t l?) Analysis and Production

{SiiSlir’RELl In the aftermath of the digital revolution, powerﬁrl analytics and empowered
analysts are how we discover targets and their secrets and how we harness our technical
capabilities to our customers“ missions. Advances in collection and processing must let us ﬂag
events of interest as they happen, accumulate far more contest-rich rnetadata, and collate
targeted communications and transactions across accesses. To take advantage of this, analysts
must have new tasking, association, and presentation tools, and larger and more adaptable
storage and retrieval systems. Fortunately, intonnation management and mining is central to the
Internet age and next-generation analytics can employ many conrmercial products and practices.

 

{St-REL) Looking forward. we will continue to devote more analysts to exploiting digital
network intelligence and to working problems related to counter-terrorism. counter-pro]iteration.
China, into, and the Middle East, aggressively investing in the necessary tools and training, and
“Franchising" some mature missions to qualified partners. We will deemphasize the traditional
concept of" a SIGINT storefront [requirements intreporting out) in Favor of" having Far more
analysts working physically or virtually within the missions that the; support. They will act
more as a consultancy than a simple data source, helping shape customer plans to reﬂect the “art

 

[NEEDED] Some characterization of actual emitters in real world operation may still, however, he
neecssan‘.

TOP SEC RETHCOMINTHREL T0 USA, FVEYH20320108 3

