TOP SECRETHCOMINTHREL TO USA. FVEYH203201UB

of the possible" and giving each customer’s own analytic workforce the power and knowledge to
reap, rather than just consume, SIGINT.

{U} Mission Management

(lir’r’FDUO) To optimize ever more complex, fast-moving, cross-access operations, we must
inn‘oduee intelligent agent technology that automatically updates tasking and status as it interacts
with teclmicm inﬁastructtu'e, visualization tools, and authoritative databases. To prevent
strategic surprise, we must track geopolitical and technology trends to identi 1y potential gaps and
mitigate them before mission performance degrades. 'l'o aeeoirunodate an increased fusion of
SIGINT analysis with customer activities. we must develop new mission management tools that
capture and handle a freer flow of interactions and new forms of support- To pave the way For
more meaningful productivity estimates and more enlightened investment decisions, we must
instrument collection, processing, and dissemination systems so that sources can be linked
through analysis to customer outcomes.

{[3} Rose-a reh

{SENSE-[REL] Our ability to master global networks and handle previously unimagined volumes
of raw data From both passive and active collection will depend in large part on successful
research. Requirements include ever more powerful methods of knowledge discovery and
management, highly capable soﬂware implants and mobile agents, optimal distributed storage
arraJIgements, and advanced analytic algorithms. Underpinning all this must be high
productivity computing systems and worldrleading cryplanalylic talent that can both cope with
pervasive hard encryption and ﬁnd and exploit meaning in large data sets generally. Researchers
must also break new ground in the area of enterprise security management if we're to fully
realize a more interconnected, distributed, and autonomous SIGINT operations fabric and
geographically dispersed analytic collaboralion.

(U: Enterprise IT and Enterprise Management

{UHF-DUO) New operational su'ategies and capabilities can‘t deliver on their promises without
the right military, civilian, and contractor workforce, a modemized enterprise infonnation
technology infrastructure. and an assured 21‘1 century physical plant. The quantity and quality of
language analysts, intelligence analysts, mathematicians, and computer network exploitation
specialists are priorities. as is rebuilding the acquisition. system engineering, and
husincsstprojcct management workforce. Another imperative is modcmizing enterprise
networks, platforms. and services; this eithrt ranges From bandwidth expansion, to sewer
consolidation and refresh. to introducing user tokens and other information assurance measures.
A third is dealing with leng-defen‘ed real property maintenance and the mitigation of long-
siminering power. space, and cooling shortfalls.

TOP SECRETHCOMINTHREL T0 USA, FVEYH20320108 9

