from 25 to 27 June. NSA is actively assisting executive protection and event security, and

providing support to policymakers.

Background (U)

(U) As host, Canada has set this G8 Summit's theme: Recovery and New Beginning. 0n the G8
agenda are international development (health, food security, natural resources trade, and climate

change); and peace and security (nonproliferation and Afghanistan-Pakistan).
(U) The G20 Summit is to focus on implementing the September 2009 Pittsbt

framework for strong and balanced world economic growth. Also on the agent
ﬁnancial institutions' reform and re-ﬁnancing, ﬁnancial sector regulatory refor

trade protectionism.

i'stx , " q

Summit Venues (U)

(U) The G8 Summit will be held on 25 and 26 June in Huntsville, in Ontario's 'Muskoka Region.

(The G8 Summit venue is also called Muskoka) The 020 Summit will be hclc
June In Toronto, Ontario -- about 140 miles south of Huntsville A preparatory
G20 sherpas (aides and personal representatives of the heads of state and gave
23 and 24 June 1n Toronto.

Threat Potential (U)

(SIIREL) The Intelligence Community assesses that there is no speciﬁc, credil:
al-Qa'ida or other Islamic extremists are targeting the Ga and 620 Summits. A
associated groups, however, have expressed interest in targeting Canada in the
Summits may provide an attractive target for terrorists seeking to capitalize on
coverage.

(S/IREL) The Community judges, however, that issue-based extremists pose a
to the Summits. These extremists have conducted acts of vandalism at previou
summits. Similar disruptive activity will probably occur throughout the Sum
more concentrated during the G20 in Toronto.

G8 and 620 Summit Participants (U)

ugh GZO Summit’s
la are international
m, and countering

on 26 and 27
meeting among
meat) is set for

1e information that
l- -'Qa ida and
past, and the
the media

3 G8 and G20
its, and will be

 

(U) The G8 -~ the Group of Eight «- is both the forum of eight industrializedn
annual maeting of the heads of state or govemmenfof these eight nations: C
Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, United Kingdom, and the United States. For th
Summit, Canada has invited the leaders of Algeria, Egypt, Ethiopia, Malawi, 1\
and South Africa to participate in an Africa outreach session. Also invited are
and Jamaica.

tions and the
da, France,
Huntsville G8
ligeria, Senegal,
Colombia, Haiti,

 

 

 

more likely threat .

