(U) The G20 -- the Group of Twenty -- consists of the G8 members plus: Argentina, Australia,
Brazil, China, European Union, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South
Korea, and Turkey. Also invited to attend the Toronto G20 Summit are: Ethiopia, Malawi,
Netherlands, Nigeria, Spain, and Vietnam, plus the Financial Stability Board, “116 International
Monetary Fund, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, the United
Nations and its International Labour Organization, the World Bank Group, and the World Trade
Organization. (The next G20 Summit will be held during November 2010 in Seoul, South

Korea.)

Intelligence Community Support Structure (U)

 

(S/IREL) The Director of National Intelligence Representative (DNIR) in Ott a is the United
States Government (U SG) intelligence lead for the G8 and G20 Summits. The DNI's Special
Events Intelligence Coordinator (SEIC) will operate a Threat Integration Cent r (TIC) in the
US. Embassy in Ottawa to support him during both events. The TIC began n a1 operations on
22 June, and will operate 0600 to 2100 EDT from 24 through 27 June. The TIC will publish a
twice daily Situation Report, respond to Requests for Information and coordinate the
dissemination of intelligence and pre-event assessments.

NSA Support to Event Security (U)

(SI/REL) Relevant SID reporting ofﬁces are aware of the Summits and poiSed to report in a
timely matter intelligence related to the events. While NSA will have no physical presence in the
. TIC, direct coordination will be through the CTMMC and NSOC, who will further collaborate
with the Special U.S. Liaison Ofﬁce, Ottawa (SUSLOO) staff and provide thre at warning
directly to the venues. NSA support planning has been closely coordinated with the Canadian
partner through SUSLOO.

(S//SI//REL) NSA support to both events may include, but is not limited to: executive protection,
US. policy goals, situational awareness, threat information, and local security posture. Reporting
instructions have been published by $12 in "SIGINT Reporting in Support of

 

  
 
  

established for the G8 and G20 Summits on Extended Shared Enterprise Co
(ESECS). See "CASE-2010-99: //FOUO G8 and G20 Summits in Canada 5-27 June." A
WikiInfo page G8-G20 Canada 2010 has been created for the Summits, and ditional
information may be found at the $1 7 Economics and Global Issues G8/G20 w bsite.

(S/lREL) CTMMC will be the focal point for 24/7 CT operations, employing ormal procedures
to ensure timely and effective distribution of threat tippers and lead informatio , to coordinate
CT activities related to any threat situation, and to facilitate foreign release re ests.

(C/lREL) Sl 11's SCC desk will be responsible for coordinating RFIs and res nses, while
NSOC/CRSMM will respond to time critical RFIs after hours. NSOC/CRSM will also
coordinate drafts of the TIC's twice-daily sitreps. -

 

 

