XKeyscoreTabs XKS Development

Jump m: naueahen snatch

 

 

 

 

N __ We, Usin ,. . XKS )[KS . _ News
ens an _ Training ' _ Renoirements —.
W XKE ““3 DEVEIUPmBnl M m

 

 

Quick Links

KKEYSCDRE Main Pane
XKS [at scale on SSE

Getting Strong-Selected Content into KKS
Getting an KKS Account

Using KKEYS CID-RE
XKEYSCDRE Traininn
XICEYSEDRE Development
KKEYSCDRE Contacts

IKE News Archive

IXKS Ren ulre ments

KKS Searches user guide

KKS Rosuits user guide

IXKS Aonrovai 'n rotess
NFVinXKS

Pro motion from KKS

Au tomatic Promotion. trom KKS
IXKS for C NE

NBA KKovscore Usinn‘ KKS tor-ENE
KKS Toch Dictionaries

Contents

- '1 XKS Uoorades
1' 2'. Guidance on microme'gE
Ir ﬂypes of XKEYSCDRE
a 3.1 Traditional
e 3.2 Stage 2
c- 3.3 Deep Dive
I: 4- Skinny XKS

[edit] XKS Upgrades

 

IKE is upgraded fortnightly-on Thursday
mornings .between 0900-1100. Ifyou -can't log
on or use the tool during this period, its
because of this.

[Edit] Guidance on Useful Lint-ts

mlcrﬂpluglﬂs I: Mastering The Internet
I: Transforming Analysis

as you know, you can create microplugins to do - m

different things: some perform advanced detection ' m

techniques to .find types -of trafﬁc which can't he ' M

detected by keywords -or regular expressions alone.
Others identify and extract data fields .into XKS's
metadata table.

 

In the latmr case. the extracted content fragments are stored in the metadata table for 30 days.
It will depend on the precision and nature of the search criteria you have used as to how strongly
-- -or weaidy --- selected that content will be.

Ifyou are going to use search criteria that will extract data about people and store that .in the
metadata table, please consult OPPLEG before doing so. They will wish to understand the nature
and scope of any data being stored .in case .it includes at least the names of individuals and the
majority of the data is not believed to relate to probable intelligence targets. This would make
this data particularly sensitive.

 

 

In addition, a quarterly check .is now being made on .all new microplugins which add data to the

Intel

