 

metadata table te ensure they meet UK legal and peliey requirements.

Please alse be aware that usually miereplugins are autematieally shared with atleast NBA. and
may alse get depleyed le ether 2P XKS. By mid-2011 a new versien efXKS sheuld have been
depleyed where individual miereplugins will still be depleyed le every XKS. but they can be
tagged net te run en eertain XKS. The enly exeeptien .is where yeu depley a miereplugin enly te
GTE's XKS ﬂeet: these will net be visible te 2P partners.

[edit] Types efXKEYSCDRE

There .are eurrently three different types ef XKS:

l Traditiunal
l Stage 2
1 Deep Dive

They differ prineipally en wherein the preeessing ehain they sit whether the data they receive
has already been sessienised er net and whether they ingest .all ef the data they receive er
whether they apply rules te enly .ingest seme data.

[edit] Traditional

When XKS was first develeped .it was used te receive data .frem Slew data rate signals being
preeessed threugh WEALTHYCLUSTER {WC}. WC sessienised .all the data en the link and
presented .it a" te XKS. All data was ingested .inte XKS.

GCHQ has traditienal XKS at many efeur sites. including .all efeur Cemsat. Terrestrial and SMD
sites. The EEEEQ XKS is alse a traditienal XKS. theugh .in that ease data has been seftly selemed
at the implant and sessienisatien takes place .in TERRAIN. rather than WC.

[$1 Stage 2

Fer higher data rates. a “Stage 2" XKS was develeped te ingest data frem TURMDIL. TURMDIL
passes 5% ef the paelrets te XKS whieh XKS then sessienizes. TURMDIL decides which 5% ef
paelrets te pass based en the .fellewing eriteria:

streng seleetien

subnet premetien

teehnelegy premetien

e-mail demains

persena sessien premetien (where .if a streng seleeter is seen. '10 minutes“ er '10 MB efdata
is eelleeted}

- persena sessien eelleetien (where the data .is eelleeted and ferwarded te NSAs PINWALE
but is alse passed te the XKS}

This data is then sent le the Stage 2 XKS. All ether data is lest.
DnlyjPC (MUSCULAR) at GCHQ uses a Stage 2 XKS.
[edit] Deep Dive

Deep Dive XKS was develeped te preve that sessienisatien at '1 [If] data rates was pessible. First .it
sessienises .all data en a link. Then .it premems data using the GENESIS seleetien language te
identify data types where we assess there is petential .intelligenee value and .ingests these. The
premetien preeess can make ene ef three deeisiens:

l Bleel: data that is legally net allewed te be .in the system -—- ie UK—UK trafﬁe
- Allew data that is lrnewn te be wanted threugh use ef premetien rules
a And then te drep any data that deesn't meet either ef these

One ef the experiments .in TINT is seeking te identify where the best balanee lies between what
is kept and what is net. A. faeterin deeiding hew much data te lreep is the seale ef sterage
eapaeity that can be previded.

 

GCHQ already eperates a number ef Deep Dive XKS:

 

Befe

