S T-09-0002
WORKING DRAFT

TOP SE CRE T //S T L W//C OMIN T /0RCONﬂV 0F ORN

(TS//SI//STLW//NF) Initially, NSA responded to FBI and CIA information
requests in encrypted email. These initial reports, sometimes called
“Tippers” or “Snippets,” were “hidden in plain sight,” meaning the
information in the report did not reveal the source of the information.
Later, FBI and CIA wanted to understand how NSA knew certain
information that could not be provided in normal reporting channels.
Eventually, “tear line” reporting was established. Tear lines are used
regularly by NSA as a way to report SIGINT—derived information and
sanitized information in the same report to appropriately cleared
individuals. The sanitized “tear line” information conveys the same basic
facts as the COMINT-controlled information while hiding COMINT as the
source.

(TS/ISI/INF) Dissemination of SIGINT Product

 

(TS//SI//NF) Regardless of which organization submitted requests or leads
to NSA, all resulting reports were sent to CIA and FBI. Reports answered
speciﬁc RFI questions or provided new investigative leads developed from
chaining analysis. Reports contained selectors of interest (potential leads)
with potential terrorist connections, not full chaining results. NSA had
minimal insight into how CIA and FBI used PSP products.

(U) Discovery Requests

 

(U) On occasion, the Department of Justice (DoJ) attorneys determine that
the facts of a particular matter justify a search of NSA ﬁles and submit a
search request. In response to those requests or in response to discovery
orders, NSA conducts a search of its databases to locate records that may
fall within the scope of DoJ’s discovery obligations and Rule 16 of the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. Typically the search process begins
with a written request from Do] including the names and aliases of
individuals. NSA attorneys work with personnel trained in the retrieval of
NSA reports to craft search strategies reasonably designed to identify
reporting that may be responsive to the request. These search strategies are
then used to perform electronic searches of NSA repositories of
disseminated foreign intelligence reports. All responsive reports, to the
extent any exist, are made available for review by DoJ.

(TS//SI) NSA searches only databases of reported intelligence and does not

search databases containing acquired but not processed information (e.g.,
raw traffic) or acquired and processed but not reported or disseminated

TOP SE CRE T //S T L W//C OMIN T /0RCONﬂV 0F ORN

I8

