TOP SE CRE T //S T L W//C OMIN T /0RCONﬂV 0F ORN

WORKING DRAFT

(U) SIX: NSA OVERSIGHT OF PSP SIGINT ACTIVITIES

(U//FOUO) NSA Ofﬁce of General Counsel and SID, Oversight and
Compliance provided oversight of NSA PSP activities from October 2001
until January 2007. NSA OIG initiated PSP oversight in 2002.

(U) Office of General Counsel

 

(U//FOUO) The OGC was the ﬁrst NSA organization with oversight
responsibilities to learn of the PSP, and it continued to provide signiﬁcant
oversight over the life of the Program. The GC was briefed on 4 October
2001, the day the Authorization was signed. On 6 October, he gave the
Director and Deputy Director talking points for brieﬁng NSA personnel on
the new authority. The talking points included the fact that General
Hayden had instructed the GC and the lead attorney for operations to
conduct routine review and oversight of PSP activities.

(U/lFOUO) The NSA Assistant General Counsel for Operations provided
most of the Program oversight before the OIG learned of the PSP in 2002.
He and his successors reviewed proposed target packages and rejected
those not compliant with the Authorization, answered questions, gave
brieﬁngs, reviewed program implementation, and coordinated program-
related issues with DoJ.

(U) SIGINT Directorate

 

(U//FOUO) The SIGINT Directorate Office of Oversight and Compliance
(O&C) represents the Director NSA/CSS and the Signals Intelligence
Director in overseeing compliance with authorities that govern the
collection, production, and dissemination of intelligence by the National
Security Agency. The Chief of 0&C was briefed on the PSP on 10
October 2001. Initially, 0&C’s ability to provide effective oversight was
limited by insufficient staffing and a lack of methodologies to provide
meaningful oversight of PSP collection. It, therefore, focused on
identifying problem areas while documenting program activity. It also
helped establish database partitions and assisted with data ﬂow compliance
issues to prevent uncleared personnel from seeing Presidentially-authorized
collection. Later, it reviewed justiﬁcation statements for tasked selectors.
Also, it directed PSP-cleared SIGINT operations personnel to follow

TOP SE CRE T //S T L W//COMIN T /0R CONﬂV 0F ORN

43

