TOP SE CRE T //S T L W//C OMIN T /OR C ONﬂV OF ORN

WORKING DRAFT

Millennium Threat. NSA proposed that it would perform contact chaining
on metadata it had collected. Analysts would chain through masked U.S.
telephone numbers to discover foreign connections to those numbers,
without specifying, even for analysts, the US. number involved. In
December 1999, the Department of Justice (DoJ), 011 m: 01‘ Inmlliga‘nm
Pol icy- Rev ic‘w (OIPR) told NSA that the proposal fell within one of the
FISA deﬁnitions of electronic surveillance and, therefore, was not
permissible when applied to metadata associated with presumed U.S.
persons (i.e., U.S. telephone numbers not approved for targeting by the
FISC).

    
 

(TS//SI//NF) Collection gaps not adequately filled by FISA
authorized intercept. NSA determined that FISA authorization did not
allow sufﬁcient ﬂexibility to counter the new terrorist threat. First, it
believed that because of technological advances, the jurisdiction of the
FISC went beyond the original intent of the statute. For example, most
communications signals no longer ﬂowed through radio signals-signals or
via phone svstems as they did in 1978 when the FISA was written. By
2001, Internet communications were used worldwide, undersea cables
carried huge volumes of communications, and a large amount of the
world’s communications passed through the United States. Because of
language used in the Act in 1978, NSA was required to obtain court orders
to target email accounts used by non-U.S. persons outside the United States
if it intended to intercept the communications at a webmail service within
the United States. Large numbers of terrorists were using such accounts in
200 1 .

(TS//SI//NF) Second, NSA believed that the FISA process was unable to
accommodate the number of terrorist targets or the speed with which they
changed their communications. From the time NSA sent FISA requests to
the DoJ, OIPR until the time data arrived at NSA, the average wait was
between four and six weeks. Terrorists could have changed their telephone
numbers or intemet addresses before NSA received FISC approval to target
them. NSA believed the large number of terrorist targets and their
frequently changing communications would have overwhelmed the
existing FISA process.

(TS/ISIIINF) Emergency FISA provision not an option. NSA
determined that even using emergency FISA court orders would not
provide the speed and ﬂexibility needed to counter the terrorist threat.
First, although the emergency authorization provision permitted 72 hours
of surveillance without obtaining a court order, it did not—as many
believed—allow the Government to undertake surveillance immediately.
Rather, the Attorney General had to ensure that emergency surveillance
would ultimately be acceptable to the FISC. He had to be certain the court

TOP SE CRE T //S T L W//C OMIN T /OR C ONﬂV OF ORN

