S T-09— 0002
WORKING DRAFT

TOP SE CRE T //S T L W//COMIN T /0R CONﬂV 0F ORN

would grant a warrant before initiating emergency surveillance.
Additionally, before NSA surveillance requests were submitted to the
Attorney General, they had to be reviewed by NSA intelligence ofﬁcers,
NSA attorneys, and Department of Justice attorneys. Each reviewer had to
be satisﬁed that standards had been met before the request proceeded to the
next review group, and each request was certiﬁed by a senior ofﬁcial in the
DoD, usually the Secretary or Deputy Secretary. From the time NSA sent a
request to Justice’s OIPR until the time data arrived at NSA, the average
wait was between a day and a day and a half. In the existing threat
environment with US. interests at risk, NSA deemed the wait too long.

 

(U//FOUO) Early Efforts to Amend FISA

(TS//SI//NF) Given the limitations of FISA, there were early
efforts to amend the statute. For example, shortly after 11
September, the HPSCI asked NSA for technical assistance
in drafting a proposal to amend Section III of FISA that
would give the President the authority to conduct electronic
surveillances without a court order for the purpose of
obtaining foreign intelligence information. On

20 September 2001, the NSA General Counsel wrote to
Judge Alberto Gonzales, Counsel to the President, asking
whether the proposal had merit. We found no record of a
response.

(U//FOUO) We could not determine why early efforts to
amend FISA were abandoned. Anecdotal evidence
suggests that government officials feared the public debate
surrounding any changes to FISA would compromise
intelligence sources and methods.

 

 

(U) NSA identifies SIGINT collection gaps to Vice President’s Office.

(TS/lSII/NF) Because early discussions about expanding NSA’s authority
were not documented, we do not have records of speciﬁc topics discussed
or people who attended General Hayden’s meetings with White House
representatives. General Hayden stated that after consulting with NSA
personnel, he described to the White House how NSA collection of
communications on a wire inside the United States was constrained by the
FISA statute. Speciﬁcally, NSA could not collect from a wire in the United

TOP SE CRE T //S T L W//COMINT/0RCONﬂVOFORN

