 

TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY

and enriching key elements of selector behavior. The Sortinglead Event Summaries benefit this analytic
because they can provide enriched location information about selectors that is not present in the raw
metadata. The GEO Index contains a mapping between the locations (GCIDs or VLRs) visited by a
selector and the time (day/minute) that the visit(s) occurred. Information from command and control
networks that track IED attacks is also used to enrich the GEO Index.

(TS//SI/REL TO USA, FVEY) The results that can be returned from this type of analytic can potentially be
enormous. Each candidate will have some level of time and space overlap with the seed. Prioritization
occurs by assessing the quality of the overlap in terms of time and space closeness. The analyst may
choose to triage any number of potential candidates (e.g. top 10 or top 100 candidates, or candidates
that surpass a given threshold).

Status and Summary

Status Source Data Caveats

- In testing phase to be - FASCIA PCS Sortinglead - Analytic cannot recover cross-

replacement back-end for the Summaries network co-travelers

current production CHALKFUN - CHALKFUN enrichment (VLR - Analytic will not be effective

co-traveler tool country mapping) against stationary (non-traveling)

- Cloud-based (MapReduce) targets

implementation under - Processing is memory intensive

development to handle larger - Analytic is sensitive to large

numbers of queries cells, VLRs, and dense areas

simultaneously - Not directly applicable to sat
phones with LAT/LONG
information

- Results can be very sensitive to
timeframe chosen as input. For
instance, analytic will not be
effective for large queries across
multiple countries and large time

frames (e.g., anywhere in-
over the past year and then

anywhere in-).

 

Future Work

(TS//SI/REL TO USA, FVEY) Because the R6 co-traveler analytic depends on GCID and VLR locations as
meeting points or waypoints, it will not return selectors that co—travel on different provider networks.
(For instance, it could not return a Verizon selector co-traveling with a T-Mobile selector.) The R6 team
is working on experiments that might "alias" seed selectors to nearby selectors on other networks to get
around this problem, but this poses challenges. The RT-RG analytic (discussed later in this paper) uses
relative velocities to deal with the cross-network challenge, but this approach requires pre-computing
travel behavior for all pairs of selectors, which can be computationally expensive.

TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY
11

 

