Name of Analytic
(GATE)
Opportunity
Volume Analytic

TOP SEC RET/fCOMINT/IREL T0 USA, FVEY

Summary

considering the possibility of
their travel paths intersecting.
Computes possible travel
routes for each entity
between specified events,
considering terrain, land
cover, and road network data.

Source Data

Architecture

Status
ported to NSANet.

Caveats

locations and 15 minute time
intervals.

- Co-travel capability would
require analyst to define a
series of meetings at specified
locations.

 

 

 

 

The analytic computes event - Sortinglead Cloud-based Initial development - This cloud analytic is
sequences of LAT, LONG, and summaries of completed. oriented to work on 7‘ to 30
time for each tasked selector. FASCIA data on In testing phase, days worth of regional
These are called “tracks". Each GM-PLACE and not yet operational collection.
selector’s tracks are pairwise- GM-
- compared to the others and a - RT-RG regional - Analytic only considers
(Io-'l‘mvclcr measure of similarity in time GSM collection tasked selectors as seeds.
Anal tic and space :5 computed. - - Analytic does not con5ider
y .
The analytic works cross- targets that do not travel
network by computing target outside a 20 to 50 km radius.
“closeness" based on the GCID - Track dataset must be
Lathong GEO information and repopulated for each data
time. update
- The Fast Follower (FF! - Smartphone Cloud-based The MGSC analytics - Analytic designed for precise
analytic considers non-SIGINT data from Implemented has been tested on geolocation data leg, from
reference paths for station ELKPRINTS in. Java and real ELKPRINTS smartphones)
personnel based on detailed - Reference- ported to data, but results - MGSC analytic would require
knowledge of the entity‘s path data (FF) MapReduce have not been the analyst to define a series

-Co-

Traveler Analytics

 

location. Candidate followers
are determined by identifying
other individuals whose path
matches the reference path in
space and time.

- The Meet&Greet Spatial
Chaining (MGSC) analytic

 

- List of
selectors
(MGSC)

 

 

validated by
operational
analysts.

The FF analytic has
been tested on
made-up data.

 

of meetings

 

TOP SEC RET/fCOMINT/IREL T0 USA, FVEY

20

 

