TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY

Should geography play a role in co-travel?

0

Because it is difficult to know where a GSM target is located within a GCID or VLR, many of
the GSM co-travel analytics use the mathematical central point in the VLR or GCID as a
reference point. We could postulate that traveling targets will be located along roads, train
tracks, or footpaths where network service exists. This type of geographical information
could theoretically be used to inform a co-traveler analytic in identifying candidates
(especially those that are traveling via the same means of transportation). Geographical
information might also be used to ”fill in the gaps” when data is missing between locations
that a target visited.

Analytics in this study that make use of such geographical information include DSD’s Co-
travel analytic and the Geospatial Analysis Tradecraft Center’s (GATC’s) Opportunity Volume
analytic.

Should device and collection sampling play a role in determining co-travelers?

0

We may collect hundreds of events from one target’s mobile phone while collecting only a
few events from his co-traveler’s mobile phone. The number of events collected may be due
to collection bias, differences in network service, and/or target COMSEC behavior. Analytics
should take these considerations into account when attempting to identify co-travelers.

Should co-travelers seen in diﬁerent source databases be considered?

0

Depending on a target’s preferred communication behaviors, some co-travelers may be
seen largely in DNR GSM data, and other co-travelers may be seen largely in DNI data. We
may be able to construct a more complete picture of a target’s locations over time if we
combine DNR and DNI data sources. It might be worth considering the degree to which
considering multiple data sources will significantly increase the number of false positives.
Databases that do not contain geolocation information might also be considered. For
instance, air travelers on the same reservation number are probably co-traveling on the
same flight. Users sharing a MAC address are probably co-located using the same device
even though we may not know where that device is located. Consistent observations of
devices within the same LAIC may provide evidence of co-location, even if the LAIC’s
physical service area is unknown. Finally, similarities between IP addresses may indicate
proximity on the same LAN, even if the physical location of the LAN nodes is unknown.
The one analytic in this study that attempts to combine multiple sources of information to
build a more holistic picture of a target’s travel pattern is the TAC/Café/TMAC Co-travel
analytic.

Can co-travel be considered a series of meetings?

0

We attempted to limit this study to targets co-traveling through two or more locations
within an analyst-specified time and space window. Ifthose locations are defined, however,
we might consider co-travel as a series of ”meetings” at known locations. Analytics that
detect co-location may be different in nature from those that detect co-travel. The specific
analytic need will define which of these approaches is more appropriate and efficient.

TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY

