TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY

 

Status and Summary

Status Source Data Caveats

Analytic implemented and - Mobile CDRs and residing in - Requires Netezza (current
tested at DSD. Netezza-based architecture. implementation)

- Requires Renoir

 

Future Work

(S//S|/REL TO USA, FVEY) DSD would like to integrate key meeting locations into this analytic, such as
safehouses. Plans are also underway to identify targets based on COMSEC behaviors such as identifying
mobiles that are turned off right before convergence between two travel paths occurs.

Geospatial Analysis Tradecraft Center (GATC) Opportunity Volume
Analytic

Background

(TS//S|/REL TO USA, FVEY) The opportunity volume analytic determines whether two entities (e.g.
devices) could have been co-located by considering the possibility of their travel paths intersecting. The
opportunity volume analytic requires pairs of event locations and times for each entity, and computes
the possible locations and times in which the two entities could have been co-located. It does this by
computing possible travel route surfaces for each entity between the specified events, using a travel
cost surface computed from terrain, land cover, and road network data. These possible travel route
surfaces include the temporal dimension (that is, the period of time in which the entity could have been
at the given location); the intersection between these multidimensional surfaces represents the places
and times during which the entities could have been co-Iocated. The analytic was developed using GPS
point event data, but the analytic actually uses a 1-km grid for the spatial resolution and a 15—minute
period for the temporal resolution, so it can be applied to any data that can be expressed in these

terms.

Status and Summary

Status Source Data Caveats

Prototype service implemented - Geohashes of GPS point event - Requires event locations and

on NGANet. Not yet ported to data. times for every selector.

NSANet. - Designed for 1 km grid-based
locations and 15 minute time
intervals.

- Co-travel capability would
require analyst to define a series
of meetings at specified
locations.

 

 

 

TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY

