 

computer center (S/r‘SI/lREL) Intro: Here in 52F, we‘ve had great success

using systems that buffer full-take audio collection for a

,. nominal 30 days -- these systems have led to real
breakthroughs in target discovery -- and we wanted to alert
other analysts to their potential. Collectors: please take note
of how beneficial these types of collectors can be to
analysts, as compared to more traditional models.

 

 

 

(SI/SI/IREL) SOMALGET is a family of collection systems which greatly facilitate and
make possible remarkable new ways of performing both target development1 and target

discovery. Significant analytic breakthroughs and successes in both areas have been
made bLSID_ an_alysts in the two comitries where SOMALGET accesses currently exist

(i. e. ,— -and the Bahamas).

(U) How It Works:

(Sf/SII/REL) SOMALGET collection systems forward full-take metadata in real time

and buffer full-take audio for nominally 30 days.3 It makes possible the selection 0f
audio content against the buffered data after the fact, in near real-time, or up to 30 days
later. This ability is dubbed "retrospective retrieval." The power of retrospective
retrieval 111 facilitating target development or discovery lies in its ability to permit the
analyst to selectively retrieve audio content and immediately validate his/her tentative
analytic conclusions derived from metadata.

0 (TS/lSII/REL) SOMALGET access to Bahamian GSM commtmications has led to
the discovery of: international narcotics traffickers and special—interest alien
smugglers. This access -- together with our use of methods that take advantage of

targets‘ behavioral patterns4 -- have allowed our 82F analysts to gain a firm
tmderstanding of the targets' activities even when these contacts occurred prior to
their discovery.

(U) More to Come?

(Sf/SI/IREL) These successes, which depend 011 access to buffered audio files that may
be associated with selectors not tasked to the collection asset in question, argue in
favor ofna collection methodology for telephony that may be viewed as analogous to
XKE YS CORE. That is, we buffer certain calls that MA Y. be of foreign intelligence
value for a sufficient 'period to permit a well—informed decision on whether to
retrieve and return speciﬁc audio content With proper engineering and coordination,
there is little reason this capability camiot expand to other accesses (besides

_Iand the Bahamas), provided compatible hardware and interfaces are
developed and deployed.5

