M

Title VII, Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), “Procedures for
Targeting Certain Persons Outside the United States Other
U.S.C. sec. 1881a)

This authority allows only the targeting, for foreign inte
communications of foreign persons who are located ab

The government may not target any U.S. person anywh
authority, nor may it target a person outside of the U.S.
information from a particular, known person inside the

Under this authority, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillan
”certifications" jointly submitted by the U.S. Attorney G
Intelligence.

I'han United States Persons” (50

ligence purposes, of
oad.

are in the world under this
if the purpose is to acquire
U.S.

ce Court annually reviews
neral and Director of National

 

These certifications define the categories of foreign act rs that may be appropriately
targeted, and by law, must include specific targeting an minimization procedures adopted
by the Attorney General in consultation with the Direct r of National Intelligence and

approved by the Court as consistent with the law and 4

There must be a valid, documented foreign intelligence

h Amendment to the Constitution.

purpose, such as counterterrorism,

for each use of this authority. All targeting decisions must be documented in advance.

The Department ofJustice and the Office of the Directo

r of National Intelligence conduct

on-site reviews of targeting, minimization, and dissemir ation decisions at least every 60

days.

The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court must approve the targeting and minimization
procedures, which helps ensure the protection of privacy and civil liberties.

These procedures require that the acquisition of informJEtion is conducted, to the greatest

extent reasonably feasible, to minimize the acquisition
authorized foreign intelligence purpose.

3f information not relevant to the

Any inadvertently acquired communication of or concerning a U.S. person must be

promptly destroyed if it is neither relevant to the autho
crime.

rized purpose nor evidence of a

If a target who was reasonably believed to be a non-U.S. person outside ofthe U.S. either
enters the U.S. or was in fact a U.S. person at the time of acquisition, targeting must be

immediately terminated.

 

L

