SIDToday - SIGINT Strategy Threads 4 and 7

defeat adversary malware?

(TS/lSI/IREL) Twenty years ago, the fact that
communications were encrypted meant they were very
likely to contain foreign intelligence, because only
governments or other important targets had the resources
to purchase or develop and implement encrypted
communications. Today, anyone who uses the Internet can
access web pages via the strong commercial encryption
provided by HTTPS, and companies of all sizes can
implement virtual private networks (VPN) to permit their
employees to access sensitive or proprietary company
data securely via an Internet connection from anywhere
in the world. SID refers to this widespread encryption,
which poses great challenges to SIGIN'T, as "ubiquitous
encryption."

(TS/lSI/IREL) Meanwhile, NSA is doing plenty to stay
ahead of this trend. To learn more about how SIGINT
Mission threads 4 and 7 are addressing these encryption
challenges and how these activities will help us meet the
goals of the SIGINT Strategy, click on the links below.

(TS/lSI/IREL) Due to the sensitive nature of these
activities you will need access to the BULLRUN
Community of Interest, which protects NSA's capabilities
to defeat encryption of network communications.
Inclusion in the BULLRUN CoI requires attending an
indoctrination brieﬁng. Please see the BULLRUN
Indoctrination FAQ for additional information.

(TS/lSI/IREL) Click here to read about Mission Thread 4 :
"Countering the effects of strong commercial webmail
encryption used by CT targets."

(TS/lSI/IREL) Click m to learn more about how Mission
Thread 7, "Virtual Private Networks" will help NSA
distinguish intelligence-bearing encrypted
communications from routine when Internet encryption
has become ubiquitous.

Space
2. SIGINT Mission

Thread Two:
Analyst-Facing
Deliverables

3. SIGINT Mission
Thread 3

4. SIGINT Mission
Thread Five:
Midpoint Injection

5. SIGINT Mission
Thread Six:
Mainstream
Shaping

6. SIGINT Strategy
Threads 4 and 7

"(U/lFOUO) SIDtoday
articles may not be
republished or
reposted outside
NSANet without the
consent of SD 121
(DL sid comms)."

20f3

