DATE/PREPARER:

 

 

Topic Page Classification Screen Number
(TSIISIIINF) Sharing and IFQFz 15 of 27
Handling Restrictions of BR or W
PRITT Uni ue Quer Results

 

FRAME ID' 4110

(ISHSlJtN-F) Sharing and Handling Restrictions of BR- or PRi'lT-Unique Query
Results

 

NEXT FRAME ID: 4120

(ISHSlJtN-F) Examples of handling restrictions for BR and PRITI' unique query
results:
a Any document, .cml, or other ﬁle containing BR- or PRfTT-unique information may
only be stored on the analyst’s personal folders, or an access-controlled, shared

 

BACK FRAME ID: 4105

 

ALT TAG:

 

 

GRAPHICIAV:

manipulated by behind the scenes analytics
(TSHSIHNF) These restrictions apply to information that is SOLELY unique to BR and
PR/Tl' and do NOT apply to information which is NOT unique to BR or PRr'TT!

 

 

location

0 Query results can y system where the results would be shared with
individuals without

0 BR— or PR/‘lT—unique results may not be qu ' ' user queries are
visible to other analysts (who may not have or can be

 

that are ob not hi:

to. query. htvr.

Comment [a 15]: Then- is no such lisl of Louis ]

 

 

(ISAlSl-WF) (OGC Attorney): Remember. BR— or PR/TT—unique query results are those contacts within a chain solely derived from the BR or PRI'I'I'
metadata and not duplicated in the results originating from any other authorities. Any oral or written depiction, manipulation, or summary containing that
information is also a unique query result. Until they are ofﬁcially disseminated. BR— or PRI'IT—unique results may only be shared with individuals who hold
the proper credentials to receive or View BR or PR/TT information. The requirement is imposed because ofthe special handling restrictions that we will
discuss later in this Module. Without the proper training. the FlSC—imposed handling restrictions may not be followed.

W) (HMC Character) Unless these unique results have been disseminated. such BR— or PR/TT—uniiue information may only be shared with

individuals who have the proper credentials to receive or view BR or PRI'I'I' information. Remember. use

means:

a Any document. or other file containing BR— or PRITT—unique information may only be stored on the analyst's personal folders. or an access—-

TOP SECRET//SI//NOFORN
Page 21 of 39

 

 

0 determine a user's credentials. _T_his--[

Comment [SLS
[his is pronounced

16 l: \‘nte for audio. recording. ]

[Comment [SL517]: Flu-inc say -

