 

 

 
   
 

  

DATE/PREPARER: 1123/2010 SLS Screen Number

21 of 27

Topic
(lSl-IS-l-I-INF) The CT

Nexus Re uirement

Page Classiﬁcation
W

     

 

FRAME ID: 4160

(-‘FSllSWN-F) The CT Nexus Requirement

 

(WP) Prior to the dissemination of BR— or PRrTTderived unminimized US. person

NEXT FRAME ID: 4170 information outside of NSA, one of the designated approval authorities must determine:

(a) that the US. person information is related to CT information, and

 

BACK FRAME ID: 4150 (b) that the US. person information is necessary to understand the CT information

 

ALT TAG: or to assess its importance

 

 

GRAPHIC/AV:

(U) Image of OGC Attorney. HMC
Character. and SV Character sitting at a
table

W) Image to explain the CT Nexus

 

 

{-TSIJSWNF) (OGC Attorney): The CT nexus requirement applies only to US. person information. If you run a query and the information returned is all
foreign person information. then the CT nexus requirement does not apply to this situation. However. if your query results include U.S. person information
derived from BR or PRﬂ'T and you want to disseminate that information to an external customer. such as the FBI, then this requirement must be met prior
to dissemination. in any form. Traditionally. under IUSSID SPOO1B. ifthere is a piece of unminimized US. person information that you would like to
disseminate, one of the designated approval authorities (to be covered on the next screen) needs to determine that the information is necessary to
understand the foreign intelligence in that particular intelligence report before the information can be released. For BR and PR/Tl'. the requirement is
slightly different.

(-T-SHSWNF) (OGC Attorney): With respect to the BR and PRITT authorities, the unminimized US. person information not only has to relate to and be
necessary to understand the foreign intelligence information in the report. but it has to relate to and be necessary to understand the Counterterrorism
information.

 

-' C ‘ [SL519]: UPDATE 7513-4 1 from the

 

SM'Fs: ease record arUSSfT') 18 [do not say SPEW
or SPUW, jLisL “IJSSID 18"

 

 

 

W
Page 30 of 39

