 

 

kgSLISWN-P} (HMC Character): Rtﬁll the RAS process and how you denied this informatiﬁ. The ideTitifier you used to uenerate this information was
approved based upon the RAS standard. It was found to be an identiﬁer reasonably believed to be used by someonel

@SLISWN-P} (HMC Character): It might seem as though the information would most certainly be counterterrorism-related since, due to the RAS approval
process, you wouldn’t have this US. person information from a query of BR or PR/TT if it weren’t related to counterterrorism. In the majority of cases, it will
be counterterrorism-related; however, the nature of the counterterrorism target is that it often overlaps with several other areas that include
counternarcotics, counterintelligence, money laundering, document forging, people and weapons trafficking, and other topics that are not CT-centric. Thus,
due to the fact that these authorities provide NSA access to a high volume of US. person information for counterterrorism purposes, the Court Order
requires an explicit finding that the information is in fact related to counterterrorism prior to dissemination. Therefore, one of the approved decision makers
must document the finding using the proper terminology. It must state that the information is related to counterterrorism and that it is necessary to
understand the counterterrorism information.

(TS#S|#NF)—(OGC Attorney): While the USSID SP0018 process is the most familiar method of governing the dissemination of unminimized US. person
information obtained from traditional SIGINT means, the CT nexus requirement is an additional protection for US. person information being disseminated
when the BR or PR/TT authorities, and metadata obtained by virtue of those authorities, is the source of the information. The FISC wants to ensure that the
authorities are being used for counterterrorism purposes as intended, so consider the CT nexus requirement a step above justifying a foreign intelligence
requirement.

 

 

 

W
Page 31 of 39

