DATE/PREPARER: 11/23/2010 SLS

Topic
(U) Knowledge
Check 1

 

FRAME ID: 4050

 

NEXT FRAME ID: 4060

 

BACK FRAME ID: 4040

 

ALT TAG:

 

GRAPHIC/AV:

 

 

 

  

Screen Number
6 of 27

Page Classification
IOP—SEGREMGQNH-NMNOFORN

    

(U) Knowledge Check 1

1. (ISALSl-ALN-F) Identify the individuals or groups below who are authorized to receive and view results of
queries that contain BR and/or PR/TT data lease check all that apply).

 
 
    

a) Individuals wit Icredentlals
b) HMCs with II and analysts with _
c) Technical personnel with| .credentials

d) Your ofﬁce chief and oversight personnel by virtue of their positional responsibility
e) None of the above

2. (IS#Sl#N-F) What should you do before sharing the results of a BR_or PRITT query with a co-worker
working on a target reasonably believed to be associated with the-.7

a) Read your e-mail to see if your co-worker asked you TBr the information

b) Call one of the SOOs in the N800 to ﬁnd out if information about your target can be
released to your co-worker

c) Verify that the co-worker has the proper credentials to have access to BR and PRITT
information

d) All of the above

 

(U) (SV Character): Let’s check in and make a few quick notes in our travel journal and see what we remember from this topic.

 

 

ANSWERS:

Question 1. (TSALSl-ILNF) Correct! a), b), and c) describe individuals and groups holding _redentials.
(TSAlSl-ﬂNF) Incorrect. Positional authority does not supersede the requirement to have these speciﬁc credentials. Not all managers or SV personnel may
require these credentials for their speciﬁc jobs. The correct answers are a), b), and c).

Question 2. (lSllSl-LNF) Correct! Before you share any BR or PR/TT query results with a co-worker, you must ﬁrst verify that he or she has the proper

credentials to have access to BR and PR/TT information.

(ISAlSl-ﬂNF) Incorrect, The answer is c). Before you share any BR or PRITT query results with a co-worker, you must first verify that he or she has the
proper credentials to have access to BR and PR/TT information.

 

W
Page 8 of 39

 
 

 

