SECRETHCOMINTHNOFORNHZOS10I08

privileged communications must be reviewed by the NSA Ofﬁce of General Counsel prior to
dissemination. (S//SI)

Section 5 - Domestic Connnunications (U)

A communication identiﬁed as a domestic communication will be promptly destroyed upon
recognition unless the Director (or Acting Director) of NSA speciﬁcally determines, in
writing, that: (S)

(1) the communication is reasonably believed to contain signiﬁcant foreign intelligence
information. Such communication may be provided to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) (including United States person identities) for possible
dissemination by the FBI in accordance with its minimization procedures; (8)

(2) the communication does not contain foreign intelligence information but is
reasonably believed to contain evidence of a crime that has been, is being, or is about
to be committed. Such communication may be disseminated (including United States
person identities) to appropriate Federal law enforcement authorities, in accordance
with 50 U.S.C. §§ l806(b) and 1825(c), Executive Order No. 12333, and, where
applicable, the crimes reporting procedures set out in the August 1995 ”Memorandum
of Understanding: Reporting of Information Concerning Federal Crimes," or any
successor document. Such communications may be retained by NSA for a reasonable
period of time, not to exceed six months unless extended in writing by the Attorney
General, to permit law enforcement agencies to determine whether access to original
recordings of such communications is required for law enforcement purposes; (S)

(3) the communication is reasonably believed to contain technical data base information,
as deﬁned in Section 2(i), or information necessary to understand or assess a
communications security vulnerability. Such communication may be provided to the
FBI and/or disseminated to other elements of the United States Govennnent. Such
communications may be retained for a period sufﬁcient to allow a thorough
exploitation and to permit access to data that are, or are reasonably believed likely to
become, relevant to a current or future foreign intelligence requirement. Sufficient
duration may vary with the nature of the exploitation. (S// SI)

a. In the context of a cryptanalytic effort, maintenance of technical data bases
requires retention of all communications that are enciphered or reasonably
believed to contain secret meaning, and sufﬁcient duration may consist of any
period of time during which encrypted material is subject to, or of use in,
cryptanalysis. (S// SI)

b. In the case of communications that are not enciphered or otherwise thought to
contain secret meaning, sufﬁcient duration is ﬁve years unless the Signal
Intelligence Director, NSA, determines in writing that retention for a longer
period is required to respond to authorized foreign intelligence or
counterintelligence requirements; or (S//SI)

SECRETUCOMINTl/NOFORN/IZOS20108
5

