SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/IZDS10108

procedures set out in the August I. 995 "Memorandum of Understanding: Reporting of
Information Concerning Federal Crimes," or any successor document. (U)

((2) Provision of Unminimized Communications to CIA and FBI (S//NF)

(1) NSA may provide to the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) unminirnized
communications acquired pursuant to section 702 of the Act. CIA will
identify to NSA targets for which NSA may provide unminimized
communications to CIA. CIA will process any such umninimized
communications received from NBA in accordance with CIA minimization
procedures adopted by the Attorney General, in consultation with the Director
of National Intelligence, pursuant to subsection 7 02(6) of the Act. (S//SI//NF)

(2) NSA may provide to the FBI unminimized communications acquired pursuant to
section 702 of the Act. The FBI Will identify to NSA targets for which NSA may
provide unminimized communications to the FBI. The FBI will process any such
unminimized communications received from NSA in accordance with FBI
minimization procedures adopted by the Attorney General, in consultation with the
Director of National Intelligence, pursuant to subsection 7 02(e) of the Act. (S// SI)

Section 7 - Other Foreign Communications (U)

Foreign communications of or concerning a non—United States person may be retained, used,
and disseminated in any form in accordance with other applicable law, regulation, and policy.

(U)
Section 8 — Collaboration with Foreign Governments (S//SI)

(a) Procedures for the dissemination of evaluated and minimized information. Pursuant to
Section l.7(c)(8) of Executive Order No. 12333, as amended, NSA conducts foreign
cryptologic liaison relationships with certain foreign governments. Information acquired
pursuant to section 7 02 of the Act may be disseminated to a foreign government. Except
as provided in subsection 8(b) of these procedures, any dissemination to a foreign
government of information of or concerning a United States person that is acquired
pursuant to section 702 may only be done in a manner consistent with subsections 6(b)
and 7 of these NSA minimization procedures. (S)

(b) Procedures for technical or linguistic assistance. It is anticipated that NSA may obtain
information or communications that, because of their technical or linguistic content, may
require further analysis by foreign governments to assist NBA in determining their
meaning or signiﬁcance. Notwithstanding other provisions of these minimization
procedures, NSA may disseminate computer disks, tape recordings, transcripts, or other
information or items containing unminimized information or communications acquired
pursuant to section 702 to foreign governments for further processing and analysis, under
the following restrictions with respect to any materials so disseminated: (S)

SECRETl/COMINTHNOFORNHZOS20108
8

