 

 

2. (51181481141333) Both of the Orders set out a standard that allows acCess to the
data when NSA has identiﬁed a known telephone number or other electronic identiﬁer
for which, based on the factual and practical considerations of everyday life on which
reasonable and prudent persons act, there are facts giving rise to a reasonable articulable
suspicion that the telephone number or electronic identiﬁer4 is associated withl

 
 
   
   

5 provided, however, that a telephone number or an account or address
0 Be used bv a U.S. person shall not be regarded as associated with-ﬂ

—Isolely on the basis of activities that are protected by the First Amendment to
the Constitution. When such a determination has been made, NSA is authorized by the
Orders to use such numbers/electronic identiﬁers as “seed” addresses by querying the
accumulated data to determine other telephone numbers or electronic identiﬁers the seed
has contacted. '

A. Summary of the Stande

_ _ 3. (If—WW) The “reasonable articulable suspicion” standard embodied "in the
Court’s Orders requires that before an analyst may use a telephone number or electronic
_ identiﬁer as a “seed” address to query the database of records, he/she must be able to
articulate some fact or set of facts that causes him/her to suspect that the nUmber is

associated with

This formulation means that analysts are not
free to use a telephone number or electronic identiﬁer based merely on a hunch or guess,
but must instead base their decisions on speciﬁc facts that would cause a reasonable
person to form such a suspicion. I ' I

4. €PS#SI#NF—) Note that the standard does not present a particularly high
hurdle.6 The level of evidence demanded by the standard is considerably less than proof

by a preponderance of the evidence, meaning re one need not show it is more
lilcely than not that a number is associated with|

4 (T SUSFWH The term electronic identiﬁer is intended to include not only email addresses, but also
similar routing and addressing information that effects delivery of electronic communications.

 

phrase “associated terrorist organization” connotes a particular list of

5 (T—S//SI//'NF) The
' irect r f National Intelligence (DNI) to have allied themselves withI

   
 

 

The speciﬁc list is included in the FISC orders.

6 (U/IFO'UO) The reasonable articulable suspicion stande comes ﬁ'om the law enforcement context and
therefore the cases addressing it focus on actions of police ofﬁcers. See Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1 (1968).
The idea underpinning the standard is that the police may stop and brieﬂy detain someone for investigative
purposes if the ofﬁcer involved has a reasonable suspicion supported by articulable'facts that criminal
activity “may be afoot,” even where the ofﬁcerlaclcs probable cause to believe that this is so. See U.S. v.
Sokolow, 490 US. 1, 7 (1989). The ofﬁcer must be able to articulate something more than an “inchoate' '
and unparticularized suspicion or ‘hunch.’ ” Terry at 27. Rather, the stande demands some “minimal
level of objective justiﬁcation” for making the stop in question. INS v. Delgado, 466 U.S. 210, 217 (1984).

TGP—S—EGRELFI-lGOM—INIH/NQFQRN—
2

