 

 

. See

I Sokolow at 7. Indeed, the Courts have made clear that the level of suspicion required for
a Terry stop 4 i. e. the level of suspicion required to constitute a reasonable articulable
suspicion —- is “obviously less demanding than that for probable cause.” Id. (citations
omitted.) 7 Further, the Sokolow Court observed that the concept of reasonable suspicion,
like probable cause, requires an examination of the totality of the circumstances — the
whole picture. Id., citing USL v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417 (1981). The Sokolow Court,
quoting one of its earlier cases, noted that “[t]he process does not deal with hard
certainties, but with probabilities. Long before the law of probabilities was articulated as
such, practical people formulated certain common-sense conclusions about human
behavior; jurors as factﬁnders are permitted to do the same — and so are law enforcement
ofﬁcers.” See Cortez at 418. '

5. (IS#SLAQSIE) In addition, for reasons set out belox'
"associated” to mean engaged in a common enterprise withl
one of the groups designated by the DN1 to have allied itself wit!
—$-or with someone acting as an agent thereof. Finally, in a case in
which 'an analyst intends to base his suspicion of a number/electromc identiﬁer used by
Party A solely on.contact with Party B, such contact must be direct contact.,and,it,must

    

 
 

 

6. (ISAZSMNE) As we alluded to aboVe, the meaning of the word “associated” is
important to the analysis, since the determination that must be made is that a telephone
number or electronic identiﬁer is associated wit

signated by the DN1 to have allied itselfl
While this standard does not say explicitly that the tel
W“? er at issue must be used by a member or agent 3%
#and while we do not insist on such a ﬁnding here, We note that
the dictionary deﬁnition of “associate” suggests a knowing relationship and engagement
in a. common enterprise.9 Therefore, in making their assessments, analysts should
consider whether, given'the totality of the circumstances, there exist articula‘ ‘
think that a telephone number or electronic identiﬁer bears a relationship tol
' Ior one of the groups designated by the DN1 to have allied itself

 
  
 
  

 

' 7 (U) Reasonable articulable suspicion is a low standard of proof. The common standards of proof and
gommon applications of the standards are set out in Enclosure-1,

   

_ I would meet the stant

probable cause or higher showing.
9 (WW For example, “associate” is deﬁned as follows: “to join as a partner, ﬁ'iend or companion; to
keep company with;” and also: “to combine or join with other parts.” Merriam Webster Collegiate
Dictionary, Tenth Edition, at 70.

