 

W4WWWWWWM;
WWW
Wm
of a nature that suggests it is used by someone
engaged in a common enterprise with one of the aforementioned.

7. (TS#SI#NF) We recognize too that there maybe cases in which an analyst’s
'Jle articulable suspicion that a number is associated wit.

 
 
  
 

 
  

, will be based on telephone or e-mail contacts alone. While basing a
determination on more information than this is preferable (and indeed is required to the
degree more information is available, since one is required to examine the totality of the

circumstances), analysts must when premising their determinations solely on contact be
mindful of what they actually know about the parties involved. For example, an analyst
who has reasonable articulable suspicion with respect to a particular telephone number
could not query the database to determine what number is three “hops” away in the
communications chain, and then, based on such contact alone, conclude that the number
three hops away now should be used as a seed number. Therefore, in cases in which

communications_contacts_are_the_solejustiﬁcatienior COIICIUdiIlg_that a number iS I

associated with

      
     
   

   

such contact must (1)_ be d1rect contact, and
(2) must he with a number or electrqnic identiﬁer for which we have concluded it is more
likelv than not used bv a member of

C. First Amendment Considerations

8. (WSW) In addition, the Orders each contain a provision stating-that a

telephone number or electronic; - - ‘
-u - ' - .. u... .. ssociated withl

- activities that are protected by the First Amendment to the Constitution.

9. FPSﬁLSHNF) We read the Orders as barring NSA from concluding —- based on
such things as the religion of the US. person, or his editorials contending that the United
States is wrong in its war on terrorism, or his membership in groups that oppose policies _

' of the United States, or the fact that he/she attends anti-war demonstrations and urges his

 

1° (TS7TS'I77NF) In order to establish a meaningful association frdm contact alone between the two numbers,

A and B, where B is a number that is alread sus ect. it must be more likel true than not true that number
B is used by e.g., a member or a ent o Neithervague statements '
about the role of Party B in nor an mdirect linking of the number

in question with Party B A was in contact with Party X, who was in contact with Party B, who
is probably a member of “will suffice on their own to satisfy the standard as to Party A. Where
the reasonable articulable suspicion comes from contact alone, such contact must be direct with a member
or agent ot— and it must be more likely than not that our designation '
of such member or agent is in fact accurate. This advice should help serve to prevent the potential for
endless “bootstrapping.” As we have discussed, the danger in carrying out the ins ' ‘ ' the Court’s
Order is a suspicion that ceases to be reasonable because of the tenuousness Of theﬁuconnection.
We believe that this analytic ﬁamework will go a long way to countering any such ten ency thatmight
exist. See enclosure 2. -

WWW
4

