 

Congressman to cut off funding for U
identiﬁer is therefore associated with

 
  
 
  

But, as we have already

  

made clear, we do not read the
that a number is associated with

    
 

so e yon e asrso rts
communications an , more specr ica y, ase on 1ts contacts with numbers about
which NSA has the appropriate level of suspicion. Our conclusion is supported by First
Amendment law, as we discuss below.

   

  

10. (U //FGHG) The First Amendment by its terms makes clear that Congress
can make no law respecting the establishment of religion, or abridging freedom of speech
or of the press, or peaceable assembly, or the petitioning of the government for the
redress of grievances. I

11. (U//-FGHG) In addition, the Amendment has also been construed by Courts to
pretect the freedom of association, a freedom not explicitly mentioned in its text. The
Courts have opined that the right of association implied in the Constitution mainly

. protects associations when they are derivative of other First Amendment guarantees — _
normally speech, assembly and petition. For instance, in a case examining a university’s
decision to refuse recognition to a student organization, Students for a Democratic
Society, the Supreme Court stated: “While freedom of association is not explicitly set out
in the Amendment, it has long been held to be implicit in the freedoms of speech,
assembly and petition. Healy v. James, 408 US. 169, 181 (1972) (citations omitted)
(emphasis added). Similarly, in one of many cases in which the issue was whether the
government could compel an organization to turn over lists of its members, the Supreme
Court observed that “[i]t_ is now beyond dispute that freedom of asSociation for the
purpose of advancing ideas and airing grievances is protected by [the constitution] from
invasion by the States.” Bates v. City of Little Rock, 361 US. 516, 522-523 (1960) '
(emphasis added).11 .

12. (U/EOHO) By contrast, simple social contacts that do not rise to the level of
organizations or associations erected for the purpose of engaging in speech do not enjoy
the same degree of protection. For example, the Supreme Court, addressing the question
whether the state could restrict admission to dance halls to persons between 14 and 18

' years old, rejected a challenge based on the right of association and held that the state did
indeed have such authority. In so doing, the Court found that there does not exist a
“generalized right of ‘social association’ that includes chance encounters in dance halls.”
See City ofDallas v. Stanglin, 490 US. 19, 25(1989).12

 

H (U) The First Amendment also protects “intimate associations” among family members, permitting the
government to infringe on such interests only to serve a compelling interest, and to do so in the manner that
is least intrusive. See, e.g., Roberts v. United States Jaycees, 468 US. 609, 619-620 (1984).

12 (33574819113) We note also that the very object of the overall effort supported by these Orders is to
determine whether or not particular individuals are members of or are associated with the terrorist
organizations named in the Orders. Thus, under these Orders, simply by being a member of a named group
one becomes subject to government scrutiny.

TOP-SEGRELH‘GOMEJZFWOFORN
5

    
 

