 

13. (G) The fact that these Orders only concern communications routing
information, or metadata, rather than the substance of communications, further
underscores the limited relevance of the First Amendment in the context of association.
The D. C. Circuit observed m 1978 that data-gathering activities using legitimate
investigative techniques do not violate the First Amendment, at least where no Fourth
Amendment privacy is infringed. See Reporters’ Committee for Freedom of the Press v.
AT&T, 593 F. 2d 1030 1064 (D. C. Cir. 1978). Since individuals do not enjoy a
reasonable expectation of privacy under the Fourth Amendment 1n the communications
metadata NSA acquires under these Orders, Smith v. Maryland, 442 U. S. 735 (1979), the
investigative techniques NSA uses pursuant to the Orders do not run afoul of the First
Amendment. As the Court 1n the Reporters’ Committee case observed, the First
Amendment offers no procedural or substantive protection from good faith criminal
investigation beyond that afforded by the Fourth and Fiﬁh Amendments. Reporters ’
Committee at 1057. '

14. (TSllSLlﬂN-E) The above makes clear that the Courts have fashioned
protections for association in order to preserve the other rights guaranteed by the
Constitution 1n the First Amendment. Since the right to free association has been found
by Courts to be protected largely as an extension of the other constitutional protections in
order to keep these rights from being frustrated, and became the derivative right to
associate is subsumed by the more speciﬁc rights enumerated 1n the Amendment, we
conclude that the terms of the Court’s Orders are not intended 1n the context of these
Orders to preclude entirely the conclusion of association based on communications
contact observed in communications metadata. We therefore advise that NSA is
obligated by the terms of these Orders to refrain from ﬁnding an association with-

_|baSed solely on these activities that are explIc1tly afford;

protection by the language of First Amendment. But NSA 1s not precluded from ﬁnding

ﬂ iii iiation_ based on direc-t contact with a member 0i—

so long as such contact is direct and the evidence shows it more likely than not that the
putative member of an aforementioned group is in fact a member.

     
  
   
 
   

 

D. Summarv

15. (51187981744591) Analysts making a determination as to whether a telephone
number or electronic identiﬁer is eligible to be a “seed” must consider all the facts that
they know or reasonably can know prior to engaging in contact chaining. Looking at the
totality of the circumstances, the whole picture, they must determine whether a .
reasonable articulable_ sn sniciom exists_ that thatdenhone- number- 0]; elechchjdentiﬁer . I

thl_

is there reason to suspect that the perSOn using

  
   
   

_ . The evidence required is
considerably less than a showing that it is more likely than not that a number is associated .
with one of the aforementioned. Rather, there must be an articulable reason, constituting

 

WM
6

