TOP SECRET/lSI/TKI/NOFORN

(U) DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE STATEMENT

(U//FOUO) The Intelligence Community (IC) is crucial to ensuring the Nation’s safety and security. We face
worldwide threats that are expanding in scope and complexity. This Fiscal Year (FY) 2013 National Intelligence
Program (NIP) budget reﬂects hard choices to ensure critical national security requirements are addressed in the
face of a reduced budget environment. We must be prepared to accept -- and manage -- reasonable risk.

(U//FOUO) Keeping America safe by providing the finest intelligence support to our policymakers, military,
law enforcement partners, and allies remains our highest priority. With the superb talent and ingenuity of our
workforce, the IC will continue to deploy the most technologically sophisticated and innovative intelligence
capabilities in the world. Through integration and efficiency, we will sustain responsive, insightful intelligence
support.

(S//NF) The FY 2013 NIP budget of $52.6 billion (including $4.9 billion for Overseas Contingency
Operations (OCO)) and 107,035 positions supports the National Intelligence Strategy and advances our Nation’s
security priorities. This budget represents a decrease of $1.3 billion, or 2.4 percent, below the FY 2012 enacted
level; and it reduces personnel by 1,241 positions, or one percent. The request meets the fiscal demands laid out
in the Budget Control Act by setting the IC on a path to reduce expenditures by $25 billion for ten years; with
over $15 billion of that amount saved by FY 2017.

(U) Developing a Balanced Intelligence Budget

(S) The IC leadership worked as a corporate body to develop the budget. The team first drew on lessons learned
from the drawdown in the 1990s, which left the IC with a distorted workforce that lacked sufficient mid-career
personnel and technical expertise. As a result of that drawdown, the IC reverted to extraordinary measures to
rebuild and balance the workforce. Moreover, we deferred infrastructure recapitalization, resulting in obsolete
facilities, single point failures, and inadequate power, space, and cooling. We also delayed investment, reducing
our ability to keep pace with technical advances to meet mission needs.

(U) Second, we looked forward to determine how best to meet increasing mission requirements over the next
decade in a resource-constrained environment. The IC leadership weighed the relative merit of capabilities and
looked at dependencies across the components. In addition, we coordinated closely with the Defense and domestic
departments to minimize disconnects and ensure balance.

(S) At the outset, I determined that we would not take a proportional reduction from each IC program, but
rather compare relative merits of programs. We carefully weighed cost and risk to understand both the short
and long term impact of our actions. To maximize investments for the future, we focused reductions on lower
priority capabilities; sought efficiencies and smarter ways to do business; and prudently accepted risk. Overall,
this budget is guided by the imperative to achieve the right balance against competing demands. Our guiding
principles were to:

0 (U) Sustain a skilled workforce;

(U) Focus on further integration and collaboration;

(U) Bolster agile capabilities that support multiple missions;

(S) Enhance counterintelligence; and

(U) Protect key investment for the future.

TOP SECRET/lSIfTK/lNOFORN 1

