TOP SECRET/lSI/TK/INOFORN

(U) Reductions

(U) To the extent possible, we protected the activities highlighted above; but with the magnitude of the
reduction, we could not avoid limited, targeted cuts to priority areas. The following are some activities reduced
from the base budget plan:

(S//N F ) Sustained Congressional Cuts. We sustain FY 2012 cuts to the CIA’s Global Deployment Initiative
and N RO’s Integrated Ground Architecture.

(S) Workforce. We continue Congressional reductions to the government workforce; curtail plans for future
personnel growth, and take targeted reductions to baseline personnel where the risk can be managed.
Furthermore, we reﬂect savings from a lower than projected civilian pay raise and continue to reduce our
reliance on core contractors.

(TS//NF) Operations. We decrease collection, production, and hard copy media generation in the GEOIN T
system, slow SIGINT network exploitation and processing modernization; cut GDIP HUMINT, non-core
MASINT, covert action programs, and some Specialized Reconnaissance Programs (SRP) operations;
and streamline the ODNI business transformation activities. Furthermore, we discontinue or terminate
some lower-priority missions, such as de-orbiting the Baseline ONYX satellite and transferring funding
responsibility to the MIP for legacy satellites.

(S//TK//NF) Long-Term Investments. We are terminating an NRO compartmented project, delaying
TOPAZ performance enhancements until the second generation of TOPAZ satellites; and reducing
technology insertion opportunities in other satellites. In addition, we are delaying some SRP investments
and terminating the Community’s investment in a consolidated human resources information system.

(S//NF) Infrastructure. We reduce enterprise management activities; eliminate the IC Data Center;
downsize the IC Bethesda Campus; suspend some facility improvements; and delay the replacement of
aged facility components. As a result, we will continue to house some of the IC workforce in older and less
capable facilities that may not meet current antiterrorism/force protection requirements and we will accept
some degradation in the IC’s facility condition index.

(S//NF) Information Technology. We reduce capital equipment replacement and recapitalization; decrease
support for heritage systems; delay consolidation of older systems; and eliminate plans for additional backup
systems. These offsets prevent spending to sustain or improve legacy environments when our direction is
to establish a new IT environment based on more centralized common services. Investments required to
establish a more efficient IC IT Enterprise are protected.

(U) Investments

(U) Although the budget is declining, the mission is not. Prioritizing our requirements was a key element to
produce a budget that meets customer needs, supports critical capabilities, addresses gaps, and helps to maintain
a strategic advantage. In the FY 2013 NIP budget, the IC makes targeted investments in:

(TS//SI//NF) Signals Intelligence (SIGINT). We are bolstering our support for clandestine SIGINT
capabilities to collect against high priority targets, including foreign leadership targets. Also, we are
investing in groundbreaking cryptanalytic capabilities to defeat adversarial cryptography and exploit
internet traffic.

(S//NF) Cybersecurity. As the cyber threat continues to grow, we sustain the budget for the Comprehensive

National Cybersecurity Initiative and begin construction of a second High Performance Computing Center
at Fort Meade, Maryland to keep pace with cyber processing demands.

TOP SECRET/lSI/TK/INOFORN

