TOP SECRET/ISIITK/INOFORN

° (TS//NF) Counterintelligence (CI). To further safeguard our classified networks, we continue to strengthen
insider threat detection capabilities across the Community. In addition, we are investing in target
surveillance and offensive CI against key targets, such as China, Russia, Iran, Israel, Pakistan, and Cuba.

0 (S//TK//N F) Major System Acquisitions (MSA). We are sustaining the acquisition baseline and maintaining
the schedule for the MSAs that replace current capabilities. For example, the N RO is modernizing overhead
SIGIN T, geospatial, and communications major system acquisitions. To reduce reliance on the Tracking and
Data Relay Satellite System (TDRSS), the NRC begins investing in a special communications capability.
Also, launch requirements are fully funded.

0 (S//NF) Ballistic Missile Collection. We are pursuing an affordable MASINT solution for integrating,
improving, and sustaining coverage of and collection against North Korean, Iranian, Chinese, Russian,
Pakistani and other ballistic missiles threats.

0 (S//NF) Mission Focused Science & Technology (S&T). We continue investing in cutting edge S&T that
enables new mission capabilities. We are tackling hard problems in quantum computing, biometrics, cyber,
weapons of mass destruction, and large complex data sets.

(U) Optimizing Our Efforts

(U) To succeed, the IC must employ its resources judiciously. The need to integrate all elements of the IC
is essential to identify opportunities as well as dangers. In FY 2011, the elimination of Usama Bin Ladin along
with 32 other high value targets is just one testament to IC collaboration. Our ability to rapidly respond to
the requirements of Operation Unified Endeavor, while simultaneously maintaining support for operations in
Afghanistan, Iraq, and around the world, is another. We achieved this by reducing the cultural, technological and
policy barriers to sharing information, and exploring new strategies for integrating our intelligence efforts. The
FY 2013 budget sustains the imperative of integration, and provides the framework and common solutions to
further collaboration.

(U) Focusing on Integration

(U) The Office of the DN I has promoted information sharing and collaboration through the integration of
analysis and collection at the strategic level. This has improved mission management of key intelligence problems,
leading to a sharper focus on, and encouragement of, integration within the Community. The heightened attention
on intelligence integration has changed the dynamics of intelligence activities. Without requiring individual IC
elements to reorganize, the emphasis on integration has led Community elements to think and operate in ways
that are responsive to strategic management and direction that encourages, recognizes, and rewards integrated
intelligence operations.

(U//FOUO) The National Intelligence Managers (N IM) are the principal agents of mission integration. They
oversee and integrate all aspects of the IC’s efforts against a particular regional or functional problem to provide a
more complete understanding of the associated issues. A major responsibility includes the development, planning,
execution, and oversight of Unifying Intelligence Strategies (UIS) for their individual accounts, with the principal
aim of managing the relevant policies, priorities, and relationships among the IC elements who participate in
each of these target domains.

(U//FOUO) These UIS are the instruments that are used to integrate IC efforts against critical priorities. Each
UIS supports decision-making by outlining gaps and challenges, as well as opportunities that would most benefit
from integration of IC efforts. In addition, the U18 present a select number of integration initiatives to provide
a holistic perspective across the strategies.

TOP SECRET/ISIITK/INOFORN 3

