TOP SECRET/ISI/TK/INOFORN

(U) Promoting Information Sharing

(U) Information sharing also is a critical enabler of integration across the Community. This budget begins to
implement a restructuring of the IC information technology (IT) architecture that will provide a strong backbone
enabling greater IC integration, information sharing, and improved safeguarding of networks. The need for the
IC to contribute to deficit reduction was the catalyst for achieving greater efficiencies in information technology.
The IC IT Enterprise will transform from agency-centric IT programs which are often duplicative and costly, to
greater centralization of common services for IC-wide use. Within this framework, we are leveraging existing
efforts across the Community and sustaining unique approaches only when they are essential to the mission.
Furthermore, we are investigating data management solutions and their associated security issues, such as the
viability of comingling data in virtualized data stores to facilitate analytical integration of different data from
different sources and Agencies. This includes new management and operating practices for the secure storage and
handling of the varied information contained in different intelligence systems through the use of cloud computing.

(U) Engaging Partners

(U) Expanding the IC’s culture of sharing with our partners is essential to leverage and maximize our collective
capabilities. We are strengthening relationships with federal, state, local, tribal, and international partners to fuse
domestic and foreign intelligence to quickly understand and act on threats. Through coordinated efforts, we can
optimize our efforts to improve intelligence support.

(U) As part of the Administration's overall foreign trade initiative, the IC will more closely coordinate its
intelligence gathering and analysis efforts with federal agencies responsible for monitoring foreign trade barriers
and enforcing U.S. trade rights under international trade agreements. The IC will directly support and strengthen
U.S. interagency trade enforcement efforts to address unfair trade practices through the World Trade Organization
and under other domestic and international trade enforcement authorities

(U) Furthermore, the IC is postured to support the warfighter as the Department of Defense implements a new
strategy. The strategy is consistent with the IC approach to the FY 2013 budget. We will support the increased
focus on the Pacific region, and surge as needed for military operations. In addition, we expect there will be a
greater reliance on the IC to provide global coverage and warning of emerging threats.

(U) Aligning Resources
(U) This year, the IC implemented guiding principles to clarify responsibility for programming NIP resources.

(S) The IC developed guidelines to more clearly delineate programming responsibility for the NIP and the
MIP to further optimize resource allocation. These guidelines better align NIP and MIP resources with mission
requirements, reduce the number of split funded projects, and enable more efficient budget execution. The
FY 2013 budget begins to implement the guidelines by transferring $165 million and 1,078 positions between
the NIP and MIP. This transfer maintains the mission, function, and execution of activities; it does n_ot represent
growth in either program.

(S) In addition, the DHS Office of Intelligence and Analysis (I&A) implemented a change in how it accounts
for resources that support the intelligence mission. Beginning in the FY 2013 budget, activities that predominately
support departmental missions are funded outside the NIP. Under the new methodology, $11 million and
44 positions are transferred out of the NIP.

(U) Supporting Current Intelligence Operations
(S//NF) In FY 2013, the IC will continue to provide crucial intelligence support to military operations in
Afghanistan and to combat terrorism worldwide.

(S//SI//N F) The request for Afghanistan and Pakistan decreases as support for the military’s counterterrorism
and counterinsurgency operations declines, coincident with planned troop reductions. Accordingly, this request
sustains HUMINT and CI operations, along with the related analytic, processing, and exploitation capabilities.

4 TOP SECRET/ISIfl'K/INOFORN

