TOP SECRET/lSI/TKI/NOFORN

Also, N SA is augmenting SIGIN T access and penetration, and Treasury enhances threat finance analysis to track
terrorist and insurgent networks.

(TS//NF) With the completion of the military drawdown in Iraq, intelligence support transitions to a smaller
long-term presence. The IC’s request is significantly reduced from FY 2012 as our support focuses on providing
foreign intelligence in support of diplomatic activities and monitoring Iraq’s plans and intentions and those of its
volatile neighbor, Iran. This budget sustains HUMINT operations, with a smaller footprint, as well as SIGINT
collection capabilities. Most support for media exploitation, commercial imagery, and other operational enablers
is eliminated.

(TS//NF) The counterterrorism (CT) mission requires a global perspective to predict, penetrate, and preempt
global threats to U.S. security. Therefore, the IC is sustaining operations, analytic, and enabling activities. With
Yemen, Somalia, and other Horn of Africa countries emerging as the most recent breeding ground for terrorism,
the IC is increasing efforts in those regions. Furthermore, we are sustaining CT capabilities in Libya to deny
extremists a safe haven. In an effort to reduce our reliance on OCO as a funding vehicle, we transfer to the base
some enduring long term activities.

(S//NF) The counterproliferation (CP) mission continues to support a variety of actions to deter, disrupt, and
prevent proliferation. This includes improving our understanding of Pakistani nuclear weapons and dangerous
nuclear material security; intelligence on proliferators, such as Iran and North Korea, to roll back and block
weapons programs; increasing our ability to ascertain global chemical and biological threats; and better
integrating multidiscipline coverage of WMD targets such as chemical weapons in Libya and Syria.

(U) Moving Forward

(S//NF) Today’s national security threats virtually defy rank-ordering. Capabilities, technologies, know-how,
communications, and environmental forces are not confined by borders, and can trigger transnational disruptions
with astonishing speed. Never before has the IC been called upon to master such complexity and so many issues
in such a resource-constrained environment. We are rising to the challenge by continuing to integrate the IC,
capitalize on new technologies, implement new efficiencies, and, as always, remaining vigilant 24/7 worldwide.

(U//FOUO) The pressure to maintain the world’s premier intelligence enterprise in the face of shrinking
budgets will be difficult. We will accept and manage risk, more so than we’ve had to in the last decade.

(U//FOUO) This NIP budget proposed is balanced and executable. It does not reﬂect the potential for a
sequester in January 2013. Instead, the FY 2013 President’s Budget proposes savings in other areas that exceed
the Joint Committee threshold, and as a result seeks to cancel the automatic reductions and restore the caps to
the original definitions in the Budget Control Act.

(U) Intelligence is the first line of defense. This budget provides the programs and initiatives vital to our
national security. Our partnership with you -- our Congressional oversight committees -- is critical to our
collective success. With your continued support, the IC can continue to fulfill our mission to keep America and
its interests secure.

éwré‘w‘k'ﬂl"

TOP SECRET/lSI/TKI/NOFORN 5

