SECREIT’HCOMlhTi't'REL TO USA. Ali's. ('AN, (iBRt‘CZUZ‘JI [23

United States SlGINT System
January 2007 Strategic Mission List

Introduction — Director‘s Intent

(3)981] The SIGINT Strategic Mission List represents the intent ol‘ the Director. National Security Agency
in regard to mission priorities and risks for the United States SlGlNT System (USSS) over the next lZ-l 8
months The list is derived from review of the Intelligence Community National Intelligence Priorities
Framework, DCL’DNI Guidance, the Strategic Warning List, National SlGlNT Requirements Process
(NSRP) and other strategic planning documents The missions included on the list are in relative priority
order and represent the most urgent tasks for the L'SSS The list is not intended to be all encompassing. but
is intended to set forth guidance on the highest priorities

Topical Missions and Enduring Targets

(SHSI) The SlGlNT Strategic Mission List is dit‘tdcd into two parts. it includes l6 cnttcal topical missions
in Part I of the list, which represent missions discerned to be areas of highest priority for the USSS, where
SlGlNT can make kegr contributions, In addition to the [6 critical topical missions. Part II of the SIGINT
Strategic Mission List includes 6 enduring targets that are included due to the need to work these targets
holistically because of their strategic importance In addition to their long-term strategic importance. the
enduring targets can potentially “trump“ the highest priority topical missions on the list at any time. based
upon evolving world events. Elements ot~ these targets are also represented throughout the topical target
sets. For each of the [6 topical missions and each of the 6 enduring targets the Strategic Mission List
includes:

I} Focus Areas a critically important targets against which the SIGINT enterprise is placing emphasis.
DIRNSA designation of a target as a focus area constitutes his guidance to the SlGlNT System that it is a
“must do“ target for that mission

2) Accepted Risks , strategically significant targets against which the USSS is not placing emphasis and
For which SIGINT should not be relied upon as a primary source, DI RNSA's reasons for accepting these
risks include high difﬁculty and lack of resources or as an “Economy of Force Measure,” in order to
achieve focus on the most critical targets

A Strategic Investment Tool for SIGINT Resources

(SIISI) Given a ﬁnite level of resources available in all mission areas. the Strategic Mission List provides
high-level strategic direction to the global SIGINT system to them resources on the most imponanvhighesi
priority areas. “Risks" identify targets that cannot be resourced to the level of a l-‘oCus Area. thereby
acknowledging that shortfalls will exist As world ctrcumstances change, these or other targets can be
added to the list as needed, targets no longer of critical importance can also be removed from the Focus
Area category. In addition, other targets, not listed as focus or risk areas, can also be worked by the USSS
to a lesser degree to meet other customer requirements. The Strategic Mission List will be reviewed bi-
annually by the USSS Signals Intelligence Leadership Team Missions. Focus areas. and Accepted Risks
will be adjusted as a means of providing high-level steerage to the Nation’s agile SIGINT System.

Domed From NSAFCSSM l-52
Dated. Ztitul I23
Dcclasnf) On. L'lli'ﬂl |23
SE('REI“-“(T)Mll\Ti't'Rch T0 U$.-\. Ali's CAN, (JBKV‘ZUTJI [33

