SECRET"-“C‘Oh-IINT-“A'REL T0 USA. AUS, CAN. GEN-"202W E23

United States SIGINT System Strategic Mission List —
January 2007

(U) 1. Strategic Mission List - Topical Missions

(S.-"s"Sl) A. MISSION: Terrorism: Winning the Global War on 'l'erroriSm.
Focus Areas:

a. All lnteragency Intelligence Committee on Terrorism (IICT) Tier 0 and l terrorist groups with
capabilities and intentions to attack the US. its interests or allies. or groups actively planning or
carrying out a terrorist attack against L' S persons. facilities. or interests

b. Key individuals and 'l'errorisl Support Entities ('I'SL’) involved in the facilitation. ﬁnancing. and
recruitment or radicalizalion ol‘all "(‘1' Tier 0 and l terrorist group networks globally,

Accepted Risks: All ”(‘1' Tier 2. 3. and 4 terrorist groups. and TSEs,

(SHIFSI) B. MISSION: Homeland Security: Protecting the U.S. Homeland from terrorist attack and
other transnational threats to safeguard U.S. persons. freedoms, critical information. infrastructure,
property and economy.
Focus Areas:

3 Border Security (land. air. sea).

b. Direct defense against terrorist attack.

c Diseases. epidemics. and pandemtcs.

d. Executive Protection-1.152326% NSSEs

e. Illicit Facilitation as it relates to special interest aliens and CBRN materials and technology
Accepted Risks:

a Accepted risks as stated in the "Terrorism“ mission

b. Global coverage ofall Illicit aetwttics of potential concern to the Homeland.

(SI/SIIIREL USA, AUS, CAN, GBR) C. MISSION: Wth and (THEN Programs and Proliferation:
Combating the Threat of Development and Proliferation oI'Weapons of Mass Destruction, CBRN,
and Delivery Methods (particularly ballistic and nuclear-capable cruise missiles).
Focus Areas:
it. Development, Acquisition. or Use ofCBRN.
b.5tate WMD and ballistic and cruise missile programs of:
China (biological. chemical. nuclear. ballistic and cruise missiles)
India (nuclear, ballistic missiles)
Iran (biological, chemical, nuclear, and ballistic missiles)
North Korea (biological, chemical, nuclear, ballistic missiles)
Pakistan (nuclear. ballistic missiles)
Russia (biological. chemical, nuclear. ballistic and cruise missiles)
Syria (chemical, nuclear, ballistic missiles).
e.W.\lD and missile proliferation activities by states:
China (nuclear, ballistic missiles), Israel (cruise missiles)
North Korea (nuclear, ballistic missiles)

SECRETIECONIINT-V'REL T0 USA. AUS. CAN. (EEK-"302W L33

