SECREva'COMINT-H-‘REL TO USA. .-\US. CAN. GER-3202M 123

Pakistan (nuclear, ballistic missiles)
Russia (ballistic missile).

LLWMD and missile acquisition activities by states:
China (cruise missiles)
India (cruise missiles)
Iran (nuclear, ballistic missiles}
Pakistan (cruise missiles)
Saudi Arabia (nuclear. ballistic missiles).

8. Safety and Security ofWMD:
Pakistan (nuclear)
Russia (nuclear).

Accepted Risks:

State WMD and ballistic and cruise missile programs of:
Egypt (ballistic missiles)
Libya (ballistic missiles)
Taiwan (ballistic missiles).

(SJSI) D. MISSION: ILS. Forces at Risk (Military Support): Protecting US. Military Forces
Deployed Overseas and Enabling their Operations.
Focus Areas:

a. U S, forces deployed in: Iraq. Afghanistan. Mideast Region. Korea. and Philippines

b. Support to military planning and operations. Support to OPLAN 5027 (Korea),

c. Intentions of foreign and Indigenous anti-coalition forces, command and control. 003. and

operational support In Iraq and Afghanistan.

d. Support to US forces in identification of HVTs in Afghanistan! Pakistan and Iraq
Accepted Risks:

a Protection of US. forces deployed in' Balkans (Kosovo).

b. South Korea leadership intentions in OPLAN 5027.

c. Routine military support to US, forces deployed lIl non-combat situations.

(Si’t‘SI) E. MISSION: StatelPolitical Stability: Providing Warning of Impending State Instability.
Focus Areas:

a. lntemal political activities that could threaten the survivability ot‘leadership in countries where US
has interest in regime continuity Iraq. Afghanistan. Pakistan. and Saudi Arabia.

b. Inlemal political activities that could result in crisrs in North Korea. SudanfDafur humanitarian crisis.
Cuba. Kosovo. Turkey. Nigeria, Lebanon. Venezuela. Syria, Bolivia. Latin American Bolivarian
Developments, and Palestinian Authority.

Accepted Risks: Internal political stability of: Egypt. Zimbabwe, Cote d‘lvoire, Liberia. DROC,
Bangladesh, Georgia. Jordan. and Haiti.

(SNSI) I“. MISSION: Warning ofStrategic Nuclear Missile Threats: Providing Warning ofa
Strategic Nuclear Missile Attack on the territory olthe 50 United States.

Focus Areas: Areas covered under a peacetime SIGINT strategy maintaining full capabilities with
reasonably sufficient coverage for the provision ofwarning include: Russia's Nuclear (‘3. Mobile

SECRETu'iCOMINT-‘F'REL TO USA, AUS. CAN. GER-“302‘“ l23

