SECRETu‘n‘C‘OMlNT-‘WREL T0 USA. ALIS, CAN. GEN-"202W I23

 

(SUSI) N. MISSION: Narcotics and Transnational Criminal Sj'ndicates and Networks: Mitigating
the impact on US. national interests from drug trafﬁcking organizations (DTOs) and transnational
criminal syndicates and networks (T CSNs).
Focus Areas:

a. DTOs and associated enabling activities in Afghanistan. Mexico and Colombia that threaten

lLS. interests.

b. TCSNs based in (or originating in) Russia that threaten us. or allied interests.

0. Money laundering that beneﬁts TC S.\'s within. into. and out ol‘Colombia and Mexico.

tl. Criminal facilitators acting as a nexus between crime/narcotics and terrorism.

e. State-sponsored money laundering by Iran and North Korea.
Accepted Risks:

a Drug productionu’trafﬁcking within the Golden Triangle. China. and North Korea

b TCSNs operating in Central Asia, former Eastern Europe. and Asia

c Criminal associated money laundering in Afghanistan. and Iraq.
State-sponsored money laundering by Syria.

(Si‘p’Sl) 0. MISSION: Economic Stability/Influence: Ensuring [1.8. Economic Advantage and Policy
Strategies.

Focus Areas: Economic stability. ﬁnancial vulnerability. and economic influence of states of strategic
interest to the US‘ China. Japan. Iraq. and Brazil

Accepted Risks: Iiccmomic stability. financial vulnerability. and economic inﬂuence ofstales of strategic
interest to the US: Turkey and India.

(Sfu’Sl) E. Mission; Global Signals Cognizance: The core communications infrastructure and global
network in formation needed to achieve and maintain baseline knowledge. Capture knmvledge of
location. characterization. use. and status ol‘ntilimry and civil communications infrastnicture. including
command, control, communications and computer networks: intelligence. surveillance, reconnaissance and
targeting systems; and associated structures incidental to pursuing Strategic Mission List pnorittcs. Focus
of misston is creating knowledge databases that enable SlGlNT efforts against future unanticipated threats
and allow continutty on economy of force targets not currently included on the Strategic Misston List.
Focus Areas:

Global Environment knowledge.

Signals knowledge.

Network knowledge.
Target knowledge.

Accepted Risks: Degree of maturity may greatly vary by target.

SECRETI-“COMlNT-“c'REL T0 USA. ALIS. CAN. GBRIQOZQI IE3

