TOP SECRET//SI/TK//NOFORN

transducer, radiation, conductance, BOOKLET, magnetic probe, acoustic probe, magnetometer, accelerometer,
microphone, transmitted over copper wire, emanations, and unintentional emanations.

Cryptologie Information - (U) Information that describes the target’s use of cryptographic techniques and processes or
of cryptographic systems, equipment, and software and their functions and capabilities, and all cryptographic material.

Cryptanalytie Worksheets - (U) Any records that show methods of analysis of encrypted and/or enciphered
information/data. This includes reports, working aids and papers, instructions, informal technical notes, manuals,
technical exchange letters, handbooks, listings, collateral documents, procedure ﬁles, evaluation plans, speciﬁc
documentation or records portraying steps, processes, tables, devices, and/or others means employed in cryptanalysis of
target communications.

Depth - (U) Texts are said to be in a depth relationship when the texts were produced by encrypting two or more
different sequences of plain text with the same sequence of key. Related terms include depth reading/stripping, flush
depth, near depth, offset depth, partial depth, and slid depth.

Depth Reading/Stripping - (U) Recovery of plain text and key from messages in depth.
Eleetromagnetie - (U) Signals that are produced as a result of the use of electrical power

Emanations - (U) Unintentional signals, that, if intercepted and analyzed could disclose the information transmitted,
received, handled, or otherwise processed by information systems equipment. These signals may be acoustic,
electromagnetic, or optical in nature

Generie - (U) Describes emanations and sensors in broad general categories e. g. magnetic, acoustic, power line/signal
line conductance, electric field emissions or other naturally occurring phenomena. Sensors are transducers which
convert physical or electromechanical signals into an electrical signal which can be collected and analyzed.

Indigenous Algorithm, Deviee, Logie, or System - (U//FOUO) Non-commercial cryptographic information security
system, device or component developed by a SIGINT target for their use. Indigenous will include target modifications
to commercial products and algorithms. If a target-developed version of a commercially available product is
cryptographically indistinguishable from the commercial product, it will be considered commercial.

Key Generator - (U) A cipher machine that generates key from the interaction of two or more components. Compare to
alphabet generator, above.

Listening Post - (U) Physical locations that are close to the target facility and serves as a collection point for the signals
of interest

Low-Grade - (U) Pertaining to a cryptosystem which offers only slight resistance to cryptanalysis; for example:
(1) Playfair ciphers,
(2) Single transposition,
(3) Unenciphered one-part codes

Medium-Grade - (U) Pertaining to a cryptosystem which offers considerable resistance to cryptanalysis; for example:
(1) Strip ciphers,
(2) Double transposition,
(3) Unenciphered two-part codes

RASIN — (U) Radio SIgnal Notation (RASIN) — A notation assigned permanently and jointly by DIRNSA and second
Party headquarters to a signal after basic signal characteristics have been verified by NSA/CSS or Second Party signals
analysts

Soviet Bloe — (U) Cold War adversaries (Soviet Bloc) up to and including 1950:
Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia (after February 1948), East Germany (though the German Democratic Republic was

TOP SECRET//SI/TK//NOFORN

