 

 

 

 

POSTSCRIPT

 

 

 

 

 

SURVEILLANCE

 

What We Need to Learn from Snowden

Only by organising politically for human rights, including privacy rights, can we raise awareness ofthe

dangers of Big Brother state surveillance.

BY RICHARD STALLMAN

the extent to which the United States (Us) and some

other countries have converted the internet into a sys-
tem for general surveillance of everyone. They do this largely
on the basis of corporations’ surveillance: even if a company
only wants to know what sort of ads to show you, the data it
collected will be available to Big Brother.

We knew already that tyrannical states such as China,
Tunisia, Libya and Iran did their utmost to monitor internet
users. We had no proof that “free” countries did it too. For
years, I have said in my speeches that I suspected the US
government used the Patriot Act periodically to collect all
the personal data from certain companies, simply because I
saw that that law would permit it and the US government
tends to stretch its legal powers; however, such suspicions

Edward Snowden heroically demonstrated to the world

torture and massacres. When we cannot have secrets from
the state, the state can keep the most horrible things secret
from us. Sad to say, the US is not alone in this; India also
commits plenty of torture and massacres.

Proposals to increase the level of surveillance cite certain
standard reasons: typically, terrorism, pornography, or ﬁle-
sharing. Terrorism is a real danger, but it is a small danger
when compared to a state that the people can no longer
control. As for pornography and file-sharing, they should be
legal — if you don’t like them, don’t use them.

You can resist some of these forms of surveillance by limit-
ing the data that you let anyone collect about your daily ac-
tivities. Buying with a credit card informs the bank (and state
surveillance) what you bought and, if you’re in a store, where
you are; I pay cash. Carrying a mobile phone tells the phone

are easy to dismiss as “paranoia”. Thanks to we can do better company (and state surveillance) everywhere you
Snowden, we know the US really does this with by organising go; Irefuse. listening to music from a server account
telephone companies. Meanwhile, India plans to collectively against tells the company (and state surveillance) what
practise phone and internet surveillance Without surveillance you listen to, and may also restrict what you can
even the ﬂimsy “limits” that govern the National This means do with it; I keep copies on my own computers or
Security Agency (NSA). . . media. I don’t give personal data to websites, aside
. . . campaigning to .
This amounts to surveillance such as Stalin could from when I post a comment on one, and I aVOid
. change laws so as . . .
only dream of. Even he could not make a list of to reduce eneral connecting my computer directly to those s1tes.
every conversation, every purchase, every move- surveillance However, it is impossible to fully avoid surveil-

ment of every person. The US has nearly reached
this level. India, with its national identity cards, is headed
the same way. But it can get even worse.

Manufacturers of mobile devices now try to direct users to
store their data in companies’ servers instead of their own
computers. If you’re foolish enough to do this, the NSA can fish
through your private data. In addition, many proprietary pro-
grams and devices spy on their users. On the Amazon Kindle,
Amazon has access to all the “marginal notes” that the user
makes about a book. If you use Windows, the NSA can break the
security Via bugs that Microsoft has reported to the NSA but has
not ﬁxed. (See http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/
u-s-agencies-said-to-swap-data-with-thousands-of-firms.html.)

The US uses its massive surveillance to imprison the whistle-
blowers that inform us about government crimes such as

82

lance while using certain sorts of digital technology.
For instance, there is no way to do email without surveillance.
You can keep the contents of the message private by encrypt-
ing it — for instance, with the GNU Privacy Guard — but there is
no way to stop Big Brother from seeking out who you
exchange mail with.

We can do better by organising collectively against sur-
veillance. This means campaigning to change laws so as to
reduce general surveillance.

When people organise such campaigns, typically, the first
proposal is to legally limit “access” to the accumulated data.
This is inadequate to solve the problem. When the state wants to
find an excuse to imprison a whistle-blower, it will find ways
to satisfy whatever requirements there are. To avoid the total
surveillance state, we need to limit the collection of data.

SEPTEMBER 7, 2013 VOL XLVIII NO 36 Economic 81 PoliticaIWEEKLY

