RC5 9 - Whatyou should know about RC5

 

Component F anction Installation

 

Collector One per each Anonymizing Chain, it collects data one or more
communicated by the last Anonymizer in the chain. It requires servers infront

a single license. end environment
Network One per architecture, it is included in ﬁrst Collector one serverin
Controller Installation. front end envi-
ronment
Shard x Additional RC5 distributed database partitions. Shard 0 is one or more
included in Master Node. It includes Worker service to decode servers in back
data and enter it in the database. end environment

What you should know about RC5

Operations

RC5 system components must be suitably installed at both the operating center and, eventually, an
Internet service provider. Typically divided in front end environments for all data collection,
tapping and monitoring, and back end environment for data collection and backup-

Data flow and protection
The RC5 server clearly separates activities in untrusted environment from those in tmsted
environment. The barrier limit is provided by a resident firewall.

Tapping data is collected in untrusted environment, eventually redirected to protect the
addressee's identity (you) and sent to an information collector (Collector). Remote device status
and settings are checked by a speciﬁc component (Network Controller).

In trusted environment, evidence is managed, set and monitored (Master Node).

Lastly, RC5 Console is a client that directly connects to Master Node. It can be installed on any
computer to be used by the various RC5 users.

See "Distributed architecture components" on previous page .

Data logging continuity

Agents send collected data to the Collector. If communications fail, connectivity is down or the
Collector does not work, agents can save a set amount of data until connectivity is restored. Data
that exceed the admitted limit are lost.

If the Collector cannot communicate with Master Node (disservice or maintenance in progress),

received data is locally saved on the Collector until Master Mode is restored. Once restored, data
is automatically sent.

 

System Administrator's Guide I ver.1.4 SE P—2013 I RCS 9 I 2013(3) HTS.r.|. - pag. 10

