RCS 9 - Changing the IP address

Changing the IP address

If the Network Injector device IP address changed, reinstall Network Injector and run first
sync hronization.$ee "instoiiotion sequence" on page 49 , "First Network Injector synchronization
with RC5 server” below

To check all addresses, open RC5 Console, System section, Network Injector and view data for
each Network Injector. See "Network injector data" on page 108

Uninstall

To uninstall Tactical Control Center, simply remove it from the computer. To uninstall a Tactical
Network Injector, simply delete the object in RCS Console and turn off the device.

See "Managing the Network injector" on page 105

First Network Injector synchronization with RCS server

Introduction

First Network Injector synchronization is required to allow the technician to create sniffing and
injection rules and to include the device in Network Controller polling. Once installed and
synchronized, Network Injector communicates its status to Network Controller every 30 seconds.

Synchronizing a Network Injector with RCS server
To complete Network Injector installation, synchronize Network Injector with the RC5 server.
Following is the procedure for both Network Injector Appliance and Tactical Network Injector:

Step Action

 

1 Connect Network Injector to the network and from Network Manager, Connection
information identify its IP address

6 NOTE: the IP address must be accessible from RCS server. Check by pinging
from RCS Collector. If there is a firewall between RCS server and the Network
Injector, open port 443.

2 Open Appliance Control Center or Tactical Control Center and click Config

3 From RCS Console, in the System section, Network Injector, click New Injector.

4 Compile the required data entering the Network Injector IP address in the Address
field and click Save

See "Network injector data" on page 108

Result: the Network Injector appears in the list and the new object to be monitored is
added to the Monitor section.

 

System Administrator's Guide I ver.1.4 SE P—2013 I RC8 9 I 2013(3) HTS.r.|. - pag. 53

