TDP SE {JR ETA-"CUM lNTr‘rhl D F URNAMR
Targeting Raticnale (TAR)

(C!!Sl!!REL TD USA, FVE‘I’) The basic premise ef this precess is te memerialize wiry yeu the
analyst have requested targeting. This ratienale will he presided te eur external FISA
Amendment Act (FAA) eyerseers, the Department ef Justice and Ofﬁce ef the Directer ef
Natierral Intelligence. fer all FAA targeting.

{SA’SIA'REL TD USA, FM'EY) While we de want te preside em' FAA eyerseers with the
infennatien they need. we DC: NUT want te give them any estraneeus infennatien- Please
fellew these instructiens carefully te place a “Targeting Ratienale” in the Target lnfcrnraticn

Ccmments field in UTT and the Selectcr Ccmments ﬁeld in Octave (Nete: There are additienat
instmctiens belew cencer'ning issues with Octave). This ratienale can he ne lenger than cne
shert sentence. Please see the screen captm'es helew fer preper placement.

{UHFOUO} The TAR nrust be in the fellewirrg fennat: !!!TAR: Targeting Ratienale {TAR}
sentence!!! [t-Iete: The “TARP” and leading and trailing triple slashes are critical.)

{UHFDUD} Targeting Requests will he sent back te draft when the TAR is net present er dees
net meet the helew criteria. Please cerrtact yeru‘ FAA Preduct Line Lead fer help as needed.

{S!!SI!!REL TIC} USA. FVEY) The essential elements cf inferrnatien needed in the targeting
ratierrale are: “User” ef the selecter. link between the user and the fereign intelligence prupese,
and the fereigrr intelligence purpese. Ayeid the use efacrerryms when pessihle. when used they
rrrrrst he eXpanded.

(C!!Sl!!REL TC! USA, FUEY) Yerrr' ratierrale MUST NOT cerrta in any additienal infenrratierr
including: prehehle cause—like infermatien (ie. preefef yerrr analytic judgment), hew yeu carue
te yenr analytic cenclusiensj any RAGTIME infermatien, classiﬁcatien marking, er selecter
infennatien.

CTS!!SI!!NF) Belew are seine actual examples {please use the term “User” er “Selecter” net yeur
target‘s name)- Analysts sheuld censult their FAA Predrrct Linc Lead tier questiens cenccrning
TAR censtmctieu-

Fcreign chernnrent Certiﬁcaticn Examples

!!!TAR: User is a minister plenipeterrtiary —Mirristry ef Fereign

Affairs!!!

!!!TAR: User is in direct cerrtact with Iran!!!
!!!TAR: User is the secretary fer in Iraq!!!

!!!TAR.: User is in direct centact with the Venenrelarr_trarr.!!!
!!!'TAR: User is a with Clunese—supplying
te Sudan!!!
!!!TAR; User is a telecerrrrnrrnicatierrs engineer and systems adrnirristrater —

—the Middle East and Serrtlrwest Asia .!!!

 
 

   

Derived Frem: NSA!CSSM 1‘52
Dated: EUUTDIUS
Declassify Drr: 3948121914
TOP SE CR ETJ-Z‘CUMINTs"!NDFDRN.!’!MR

