WWW

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
FORT GEORGE G. MEADE. MARYLAND 20755-5000

 

JUN 2 91099

MEMORANDUM FOR STAFF DIRECTOR, HOUSE PERMANENT SELECT
COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

SUBJECT: (U) Notiﬁcation and Update -- INFORMATION MEMORANDUM

(U) This is to provide written notiﬁcation on matters brought to the Committee‘s
attention by way of oral notification to Committee staff directors on June 25, 2009.

(Mm—Over the past several months, working with the Department of Justice
(DOJ) and the Ofﬁce of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), NSA has been
systematically reviewing its technologies and methods of handling the Business
Records ( BR) and Pen Registeri‘Trap & Trace (PR/TT) data we obtain under Orders
of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance COurt (F'ISC). These reviews have
uncovered several compliance matters that we have disclosed to the Court and this
Committee. In large part, these compliance issoes concern internal information
systems are * _, - ' ' " ' ' ' and
PRITT data
Inadequate a en ion 0 iese 11‘1 erna sys ems an em sys ems are i ec ure
resulted in a failure to fully comply with the procedures the Court imposed in thc
handling of data under the F180 Order. NSA is identifying, reporting, and
remediating these matters.

 
  
     

IISﬂSlLihLEl—We have made substantial progress along these lines, and the enclosed
report on the Business Records FISA end—to—end review details our progress thus
far. As the report is highly technical in part, we offer to provide a brieﬁng outlinng
our ﬁndings. We will provide additional information as it emerges; in particular, we
will need to supplement the report with an additional section recently required by
the FISC, as discussed in section 3. Once work on the additional required section
has been completed, a supplement to the report will be prepared and provided to the
Committee. The joint review process is ongoing, and we will continue to keep the
Committee informed.

(EMS-IMGonsistent with this commitment, NSA has begun a comprehensive
review of' the PRfTT platform that operates pursuant to FISC authority. This
PR/TT review will mirror closely the rigorous review process of the BR platform.

(U) As these reviews uncover new issues, we will continue to work to resolve them
with the FISC. The Court has recently approved several aspects of our work that we
had earlier reported, and these are detailed below. At the same time, the Court

