 

TOP SECRETHSIJ'TWINOFOFIN

[U] COMPUTER NETWORK OPERATIONS
(U)I SIGINT ENABLING

 

This Exhibit is SEERETHNDFDRN

 

 

 

 

 

 

FY 20] I' Fr 2011 Fnaeleﬂ [-"f 20]] Request FY 2012 —- FY 2D13

Actual Base {JCO Tmal [Ills-t 0C0 Total Change Chi“
Funding {5th 293.6 215.4 — 215.4 25-19 — 154.9 -2ii.4 ft'
Civilian ETE 144 I43 — lit} 14] — HI -2 -t
Civilian Pruitinns 14-! I13 - 143 14] — HI -2 -|
Military Positions — — — — _ _ _ _ _

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Totals may not and due to rounding.

 

 

lincludcs enacted FIDO fill-tiling

 

(Li) Project Description

    

way, the SIGINT Enabling approach uses commercial technology and insight to manage the increasing eosl and
technical challenges ofdisooverittg and successfully exploiting systems of interest within Ll'tc ever—more integrated
and soettt'ity-l'o-cuseti global communications environment.

(TSHSIHREL. To USA, FVEY) This Project supports the Comprehensive National Cybetseeuriry
initiative (CNCI) by investing in corporate partnerships and providing new access to intelligence metres.
reducing collection and cnploilation costs of existing sources). and enabling ettpttnded network operation and
intelligence exploitation to support network defense and cyber situational awareness. This Project contains the
SIG-INT Enabling Sula—Project.

(Ui Bus: rescurces in this project are used to:

- TSt'i'Sit'l'REL T0 USA. FVEY)

.. (TSt'i’SiffREL TD USA, FVEY) Collect target network data and metndatn Via cooperative network carriers
attdiot' increased control over core networks.

- fTSo'Slfl'Rl-ELTO USA, Fv'EY} Leverage commercial capabilities to remotely deliver or receive information
to and from target endpoints.

' FTSr't'Sifl'Rl-‘J .10 USA, FVE‘YJ Exploit foreign trusted computing platforms and technologies.

' _T5NSI-'mﬁl+ T0 use FVEVJ —

0 {'I'SJ'JSUIREL To USA. WEY‘J Make speciﬁc and aggressive investments to iueilitale the development of
a robust exploitation capability against Neat—Generation Wireless (NGW) communications.

. {UttFOUO} Maintain understanding ofeommereial business and technology trends.
0 {U.-'."FOU0) Pro-cure products For inlernnl evaluation.

0 (UHFOUO) Partner with industry iindr'Ul' government agencies in developing technologies of strategic
ittleresi lo NSMCSS.

TDF SECRETHSIJT KHNGFOHN l 15

The N.S.A.‘s Sigint Enabling Project is a $250 million-
a—year program that works with Internet companies to
weaken privacy by inserting back doors into encryption
products. This excerpt from a 2013 budget proposal
outlines some methods the agency uses to undermine
encryption used by the public.

The agency works with companies to insert back doors
into the commercial products. These back doors allow the
agency, and in theory only the agency, to gain access to
scrambled information that it would not be able to view
othenivise.

Because the N.S.A has long been considered the world‘s
top authority on encryption, it has dual, sometimes
competing, roles. One responsibility of the agency is to
safeguard United States communications by promoting
encryption standards, and the other is to break codes
protecting foreign communications. Part of the Sigint
Enabling Project‘s goal is to influence these standards —
which are often used by American companies — and
weaken them.

 

 

