 

TOP SECRETI’I‘SM'IUMOFORN

(TS-TSIHREL To USA. FVEY] Support the SIGTNT exploilalion of NOW. :1 .‘e’lIPerP collective
investment_ This request reﬂcols mil},I the NIP portion of the program. Refer to MIPNSA Ivolume for details

on MIP related activities.
[TSIJ'SIHREL TD USA, WEY) Provide forconlinue-t‘t partnerships with major tclccummunicalions carriers

to shape the global network to beneﬁt other collection accesses. and allow on: continuation or partnering Will!
commercial Managed Security Service Providers and thrcaT researchers, doing thrcab'vulncrability analysis.

[TSl'fSIerE-L TO USA. FVEYJ Conu'nuc rclationtthips with continencial 11' partners and capitalize on new
opportunitiest including Lhe enabling of cryptography used by Ibo

gnvcmmcn15;cnnb]c the encryption being used in a high interest satellite signal, which allows access to the
communications being carried on a commercial satellite provider.

(Ll) There are no new activities in this Project for FY 2013.

(U) The CCP expects this Project to accomplish the following in FY 20l 3-:

n

(TEE-"Slﬂ’thl Reach an initial operating capability for SIGlNT acccse lo dala flowing through a commercial
Arabic lnnguagei'lvliddlc East—oriented anonymous intemet service. [CCPﬂmﬂgl

('I'Si'fSlli'REL TO L'SA. WEY) Reach full operating capability for SIGINT uocesn to data ﬂowing through
a hub for a major commercial communications provider and assess its long term beneﬁts.

SHEIHREL 'IU LISA J-‘vEY

Sfi'Sli't'REI. TO LISA. FVEY

   

  

[CCP_EIDOD€I]

{TSHSWREL TO USA, FVIEY] Make gains: in enabling decryption and Computer Network Exploitation
{ENE} access to fourth gcncrtttiuanong Tenn Evolution [4Gi'LTEJ network: via enabling. [CCFJleQ‘l

{TSItSIrl'REL To USA, FVE't’] Assess existing wireless calling mctndata accesses: and balance [low of me
data in") NSAJ’CSS with the ability to ingest and utilize lhis information. [COJKJDCITJ

{TSHSUIREL TO USA, FVEYJ Aeneas existing commercial cybcr infon‘nalion Flows and balance the ﬂew
oftltis data into NSAECSS with the abilit}.I to ingest and analyze this information to support cybcr situational
awareness. [CO DOOM]

(TSUSL‘JNF) Shape the worldwide commercial cryptography marketplace to make it more tractable to
advanced cryptanalytic capabilities being developed by NSAI’CSS. ICCPJKlO‘JU]

(U) Changes From FY 211nm FY 2013:

(SfFNII') SIUIH'I‘ Enabling: $20.4 milljun ($20.4 Base), -2 civilian positions. The aggregate deereasc is
the result of:

115

(U] Increases:
— tTSiSli'FNF'] $5.6 million reflects additional level of ilwcsn'nent in enabling exploitation capabilities
ugllinﬂ NGW mobile- and data networks.

— lTSﬂSLI'fNF} $4.1 million enables additional support to Endpoint operations. Support In this mission
area requires SIGINT Enabling to invest in new infrastructure and capabilities with commercial

partners.

— {53'me $0.4 million in ciViliun pay and beneﬁts.

TOP 5 ECRETJIS IITKJ'i'NDFCI FIN

 

The agency defines capability as “the NSI-VCSS ability to
exploit a specific technology," according to a 2010
document outlining the Bullrun program. Here, the agency
is claiming that it can gain access to the text and audio of
an Internet chat service. It is unclear from the documents
that The New York Times and ProPuinca have access to
which service this document refers to.

Large Internet companies use dedicated hardware to
scramble traffic before it is sent. In 2013, the agency
planned to be able to decode traffic that was encoded by
one of these two encryption chips, either by working with
the manufacturers of the chips to insert back doors or by
exploiting a security flaw in the chips‘ design.

 

 

