SECRET/ISIIIREL TO FVEY

(S/lSl/IREL) Some IR.21 Fields Useful to SIGINT

 

(U) IR.21 Field
Mobile Country
Code (MCC)/
Mobile Network

(U) What is it?

(U) A decimal digit code which uniquely identifies a
mobile network. The MCC which identifies the
country is used as the first three digits of any user's

(U) How is it used?

(U) Provide unique identification of networks to
identify network boundaries, interfaces, protocols,
software, hardware, etc.

 

Code (MNC) IMSI, followed by the two digit MNC which identifies
the network within that country.
Mobile (U) A number uniquely identifying a subscription in a (U) Allow identification of real phone number dialed
Subscriber GSM or a UMTS mobile network (the telephone
Integrated number to the SIM card in a mobile/cellular phone).

Services Digital
Network Number
(MSISDN)

 

TADIG codes

(U) A number allocated by the GSMA for use as
primary identifiers, both within file contents and file
names. Also used as a more generic entity identifier
in the mobile industry

(U) Identify the network for billing purposes and
help identify targets

 

 

Signaling (U) A network layer protocol that provides extended (U) Provides routing information within the Public

Connection routing, flow control, segmentation, connection- Land Mobile Network and provides access to

Control Part orientation, and error correction facilities in applications such as 800-call processing and

(SCCP) Signaling System 7 telecommunications networks calling card processing to identify targets and
other information

Subscriber (U) This field indicates whether or not authentication (S//S|//REL) It would also show the emergence of

Identity is performed for roaming subscribers at the start of new cipher algorithms and support target analysis,

Authentication

GSM service and the type of A5 cipher algorithm
version in use.

trending and the development of exploits.

 

Mobile
Application Part
(MAP)

(U) A 557 protocol which provides an application
layer for the various nodes in GSM and UMTS mobile
core networks and GPRS core networks to
communicate with each other in order to provide
services to mobile phone users. The Mobile
Application Part is the application-layer protocol
used to access the Home Location Register, Visitor
Location Register, Mobile Switching Center,
Equipment Identity Register, Authentication Centre,
Short message service center and Serving GPRS
Support Node (SGSN).

(S//S|//REL) Provides a clearer understanding of
network features when roaming agreement
information is published. Current information about
subscribers, mobility management and
applications can be used for targeting and target
development.

 

 

Network
Element

(U) Specific network components, their
manufacturer, software & hardware versions, etc.

(S//S|//REL) This specific information is necessary
for targeting and exploitation. Includes core and

 

SECRET/ISIIIREL TO FVEY

 

