Term risrn {SWOT} [SHED

 

[SHED In early 2003. NEAJ'GSS Europe [NGEUE] and the Geospatial Exploitation
and Counterterrorism Product Lines initiated a Forward Production effort [at
NGEUE} to support our national goals and strategy in North Africa. Among those
goals was to enable African governments to 'police their own borders. sustain or
enhance stability and make it clear that their countries were an environment
hostile to terrorist organizations and their supporters.

[SHED This small investment of five-to-six analysts has provided a. significant
return: Forward Production and headguarters analysts* were able to report the
predicted movement ot—
EUGDM Senior Staff and US. Ambassadors in the region used this information to
engage and enable regional governments to conduct successful counterterrorism
operations. Intelligence generated by this Forward Production-NEAW partnership
has been responsible for the capture or kill of over 40 terrorists and has helped
achieve GWDT and regional policy successes in Africa.

[SHED While based on the skills of the forward-deployed analysts as supported by
NEA HQ. two other overarching factors contributed to the effort's success. These
factors are:

I collocation with the primary regional implementer or action arm of the US
Government as well as supporting elements. and

I an aggressive effort to release SIGINT to foreign governments supporting
truly non-traditional customers [e.g.. governments in Algeria. Mali. and
Mauritania}.

[SHED Forward Production's effectiveness is based on collocation and integration
with operational planners and teaming with all-source customers and partners.
This allows Forward Production analysts to better anticipate reguirements. to
provide better-tailored products and services. to better operate in the customers'
decision cycle. and to better understand customer needs.

[SHED As the title of ﬂgram-EET' states "It's About Relating. Not Disseminating"
and NGEUE. forward-deployed analysts as "our expeditionary force inside our
customers' information space..." are better enabling GT operations and reaching
analytic conclusions not otherwise possible. The Forward Production cell at NGEUE
is serving as a. model for operational partnering and analytic collaboration within
the customer's environment.

[SHED This Forward Production model will be implemented on an industrial scale
when the European Security Center [EEG] in Darmstadt. Germany becomes fully
operational. The ESC is the realization ofa significant investment by US Army
Europe [USAEEUE] and Intelligence and Security Command [INSGDM] to perform
SIGINT analysis and production against national. theater. and tactical reguirements
within the customer domain. [See related storv.)

Notes:
* [SHED Extended enterprise and HQ communities of the GED. GT. Regional
Targets. and Middle East North Africa product lines collaborated on this target.

20f3

