SHCRETHNOFORN

   

Watchlisting Guidance. IJ‘I‘I participated in multiple detailed reviews providing comments
and inputs and provided suggestions for improving the Guidance. The effort culminated in
an approval by the Deputies Committee [DC] in March 2013.

(UI/FOUO] INTERPOL Information-Sharing Agreement: IN'I‘ERPOL Red Notices contain
derogatory information, biographies, and biometrics which can serve to both create new
TIDE records and enhance currently existing records. Through coordinated efforts,
processes were developed whereby the FBI's National [TTF served to nominate subjects of
Red Notices to TIDE for watchlisting and EAB is enhancing existing TIDE records with
active Red Notices.

[S//NF) Foreign Collected Terrorist Biometrics: In 2012, the Biometric Analysis Branch
partnered with l-‘BI‘s Global Initiatives Unit to nominate biometric data captured on
terrorists from foreign partners into TIDE. This process has continued to evolve and grow.
In FY13, this process has enhanced over 1,000 terrorist records enabling effective
biometric screening.

[S//NF) National Media Exploitation Center [NMEC): The Biometric Analysis Branch
continued to support a DTI liaison within NMEC which proved beneficial to both
organizations. The arrangement enables NCTC to obtain additional data fusion points by
accessing and exploiting NM EC data holdings and, in return, DTI provides NMEC with a
classiﬁed biometric search capability against TIDE through automated and manual facial
identiﬁcation support To date BAB has enhanced 33 TIDE records and provided over 7,000
search results to NMEC. From this effort, in December 2012, the EncounterAnalysis Branch
established a CBP Encounter Package foreign document translation process with the
National Media Exploitation Center and has completed 119 requests for translation and
addendums to TIDE.

DTI Accomplishments supporting NCTC Goal 3: Workforce

(U//FOUO) DTI Internal Training: Standard DTI Internal Training: In 2013, DTI provided
training fora total of124 new hires, a 100% increase over 20 12. Over 80 ofthese new
hires were trained during a two month period during the contract transition, an 800%
increase over the previous two months. The training team was able to make considerable
adjustments to accommodate this extremely high influx of personnel. In addition, DTI has
developed and implemented a refresher course that provides incumbent analysts the
opportunity to reinforce the fundamentals ofTIDE production. The course highlights
general policy and process updates of which analysts may not be aware given the different
focus areas ofthe various branches within DTI. Finally, DTI developed a familiarization
course for those in DTI who are interested in gaining a pe1'5pective on DTI operations.
Topics include overviews of external [C policies, watchlisting, Kingfisher.TIDE, Biometrics,
and DTI overview. A pilot and a full session ran in 2013.

(U/lFOUO) Mock CAB: DTl’s Professional Development Working Group sponsored mock
Career Advisory Boards [CABS], which were designed to provide employees insight to the

     

 

SECRE'I‘//NOFORN

 

