 

 

 

[U//FOUO) Development of Metrics to Minimize Individual Requirements to Track
Work Completion: DTI developed a monthly TIDE-based metrics template in May 2013
and began [retroactively] tracking several datasets effective 1 Jan 2013. Information
collected includes data on nominations, nomination backlog, special projects/hulk ingest,
new entities created, encounters, and QA audits.

DTI Accomplishments supporting NCTC Goal 5: Technology

[Il//l"0UO] Standard Nomination Tool: DTI, along with WaLchlisting Community
partners, upgraded the standard nomination tool Used to send data for entry into TIDE.
Significant improvements were made to the user interface to streamline the process of
submitting data and the inclusion of the TIDE Restricted capability provided nominating
agencies the ability to ensure that data too sensitive for export to unclassiﬁed systems
could be appropriately marked and handled by TIDE. This allows nominating agencies to
provide more data than previously disseminated as appropriate controls are now in place
to ensure the sensitivity of the data is accounted for.

[S] Bulk Ingest capability: DTI developed an internal self-service program to ingest large
datasets for automated exploitation and enhancement oleDE records. The self-service
capability allows DTI to quickly ingest large datasets into TIDE in a flexible environment
where those providing the technical support are fully trained on DTI's policies and work
closely with those who will process the data. The result is fewer policy errors and the
ability to quickly make modiﬁcations and set priorities based on DTI's needs. The
program‘s efﬁciency has enabled DTI to ingest multiple datasels in the time that the
previous process would have taken to prioritize the datasets.

[ll//FOUO] Database DeveIOpment ilG's Data Exploitation Team developed a database
which has created multiple efficiencies for internal processes. The database allows for
automated tracking metrics reporting, increased accuracy in de—duplication, and allows for
tracking and identiﬁcation of KSTs for further research. The database also aliows for
tracking of PISA classified cables. This database has saved at least 10 hou rs of work per
week and has streamlined processes for RFIs, metrics, and identity management. Based on
this success, this database has been duplicated for other internal DTI sections.

[S//NF] EFT ofCBP Packages to TIDE: After 2-plus years ofdevelopment, the early
February 2013 approval of the Interconnection Security Agreement between CBP and NCTC
resulted in the successful electronic file transfer of CBP Encounter Packages to TIDE.
Previously, the Encounter Packages were retrieved from CBP via a Compact Disc. Since the
7 March 2013 start up, more than 5,378 Encounter Packages have been received and
processed into TIDE by EAB.

   

seems/moment

