sscarry/NoronN

     
   

[S//NF] DTI Support to Boston Bombing Investigation: In the wake ofthe Boston
Marathon bombings, NC'I‘C/D'I‘I was deeply involved with all facets of the response.
Immediately following the incident, DTI contributed to [TB] deep dives. identified potential
suspects. and delivered information to national leadership as Well as coordinated with the
FBI on biometric holdings in TIDE. Longerstcrm, DTI responded to the US Senate and House
Congressional Intelligence Oversight Committees and prepared formal testimony that
aided the Director ofNCTC, Principal Deputy Direction of NC’I‘C,and Director of DTI for
appearances on Capitol Hill. From this incident, DTI identified several lessons learned that
were incorporated into the Directorate‘s policies and processes.

(U//FOUO] Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment [TIDE] Classiﬁcation Guide
(CG): Working with community partners, D'l‘I finalized the first copy ofthe TIDE CG. This
guide will serve as the official document for general classification guidance and
classiﬁcation policy controls and procedures for the dissemination and use of TIDE
information, ensuring it will be adequately protected.

(S/[NF] Biometric Enhancement Scrub for Wa tchlisted US Persons: Through a
comprehensive review oleDE holdings relevant to the Boston Marathon bombing, NCTC
recognized the need to ensure that watchlisted US persons included available facial images
and fingerprints. This project includes record by record research ofeach person in relevant
Department ofState and It; databases, as well as bulk data requests for information. The
bulk requests were sent to our partners at FBI and DI-IS for any related biometric data,
including driver's license images. When the project started there were 814- US Persons
without any biometric information in TIDE, equating to less than 20% of the total
watchlisted US persons. Upon completion ofthis project, NCTC has added 370 facial images
and 24-9 fingerprints for 163 US persons.

(Sf/NF] Mali and Chechnya/Dagestan Enhancement Scrubs: In FY13, DTI completed a
targeted scrub ofTIDE subjects with connections to Mali or terrorist groups known to
operate in Mali based on the recent conflict and ongoing threat to US and Western interests
there. Separately. TIDE subjects with a nexus to Chechnya or Dagestan were reviewed in
the wake ofthe Boston Marathon bombing.

- DTI analysts reviewed more than 1,700 TIDE records on subjects associated with
these threats, resulting in some 3,500 enhancements to over 600 TIDE records,
o The scrub also resulted in Watchlist status upgrades for 55 TIDE subjects.

'1“:

 
    

(S/fNF) Biometric Analysis Reports: The Biometric Analysis
Branch (BAB) continues to provide support to a broad customer
base through their unique skill offacial identification support. In
2013, BAB produced 291 Biometric Analysis Reports which _._,
provide facial identification support to customers from NCTC, DOD 7. 2m:
(AFOSI, SOCO M, PAIZOM], DOS, CIA, NMEC, DHS (CBP, NTC], FBI :j
(TSC), DIA, NGA and NYPD. 1

:.-,

  

SECRETY/NOFORN

