SECRET/fNOFORN

     

The Syria Foreign Fighter Threat Case in TIDE provides the lC’s common record for the
activities of more than 3,200 KSTs associated with Syria. This case contains a total of3,258
individuals, to include 715 Europeans and Canadians and 41 US Persons, 37 ofwhich are
watchlisted in TSDB.

External to NCTC:

[S/fNF) Chicago Marathon supported by DTI IIG and AEG TIDE Analysts alongside
FBI: Based on the lessons learned from the Boston Marathon, l)'l'l analysts in AEG and HG
worked alongside the FBI and the NCTC Midwestern Representative to suppose the Chicago
Marathon. Analysts performed deep dives in Tide for biometrics, and located all of the
entries that had no photo or fingerprints. Analysts alsa pulled all ofthe records in TIDE of
people who held a drivers license in Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin. Doing their due
diligence with those TIDE lists, analysts ensured no one warranted i'urther scrutiny by the
FBI before the race.

[S//NF] Biometric Support to NCDC: In FY13, DTI began assisting the National
Collaboration Development Center [NCDC) with their Targeting Collaboration Course
[TCC]. The TCC is an interactive scenario-based training in which students learn to enhance
existing source identification skills by providing tactical analysis intended to spur an
operational action against a human target.

[U//FOUO] Driver's License Initiative: To fulfill the biometric enhancement mission
within DTl's Identity Intelligence Group [IIG], the Biometric Analysis Branch [BAB] began
an outreach/partnership effort with the larger law enforcement community to collect facial
images associated with driver‘s license data. With support from FBI partners and NCTC's
Domestic Representatives, this enhancement mission took on significant growth in FY13.
BAB now coordinates directly with the following states: Arizona, Texas, New York,
Maryland, Delaware, Washington DC, Florida, California, Virginia, Oregon, Massachusetts,
Nevada, Georgia, Colorado, Washington, and Rhode Island. This effort has resulted in 2,400
Driver’s License facial images added to 'l‘lDF. in FY13.

[S//NF] International Travel Data (ITD): DTI identified information gaps between TIDE
and CIA's I11) and worked with CIA to add the missing data to TIDE-2 from clandestinely
collected travel data. This effort resulted in the inclusion of892 fingerprint files and an
additional 1268 data points added to TIDE. DTI used the data to enhance a total nqu
identities in TIDE.

[ll/ﬂ-‘UUUJ CMO Outreach Initiative: To increase the biometric and biographic
information on KSTs detained worldwide, DTI began working with the CIA‘s Collection
Management Officers. As a result, over 150 requests have been sent to the field and nine
new national HUMINT collection requirements have been written. Additionally, DTI is now
sending collection requirements directly to the field using the CIA Information Needs
Management database (CINEMA). This will allow DTI to obtain information that has not
been collected and use it to enhance TIDE.

   

”teas/morn ” '

