sscnsrx/noronn

(U//FOU0] DTI Outreach Efforts: DTI ofﬁcers, together with representatives from the
Terrorist Screening Center's [TSC] training team, traveled to FBI Miami and FBI Los Angles,
visiting Field Ofﬁces and fusion centers to educate analysts and agents about DTI, TSC,
TIDE, and the watchlisting business process to aid in their role of reviewing case
information and Guardian leads. and participation in the Encounter process. 2013 is the
first year that DTI and TSC have partnered to provide outreach and training outside ofthe
metro DC area.

(U//FOUU) Training Expanded for External Partners: DTI officers traveled to Glynco, GA to
provide a brief to approximately 50 Counterterrorism Division instructors and leads at the
liederal Law Enforcement Training Center [FLETC]. The goal was to establish a partnership
with FLETC and to educate the instructors about DTI, TIDE, and the watchlisting business
process. In the WMA, DTI has also expanded its training offerings, holding a quarterly
training session in the LX auditorium for all IC members. In FY13, DTI provided advanced
'I‘IDE training to 95 analysts representing nine partner agencies (TSC, TSA, NGA, DOS, DHS,
FBI, CPB, US Army Special Forces, and Bureau ofDiplomatic Security].

(S//NF) Biometric Training Program Offered to Additional Partners: DTI now offers a
half-day Biometrics Training Program once a month that is open to all IC partners holding a
TS/SCI clearance. The course provides a basic familiarization of classified and unclassiﬁed
biometrics repositories; an overview of the watchlisting process as it pertains to biometrics
and identity intelligence; and an introduction to targeted biometrics research at NCTC.

(U//FOUO] DTI, TIDE and W3 tchlisting Review: This review brought together
experienced members of the watchlisting community to take a genuine look at how the
community is doing. Participants were asked to put the vieWS of their home agencies aside
and take an objective look at the watchlisting process. TIDE. and DTl's support of'fIDE and
the watchlisting process. The exercise culminated in an assessment paper providing five
key findings. seven recommendations for improvements, and acknowledging those areas
that excel.

(S//N F] CIA — Hydra: DTI has partnered with CIA to enhance select populations in TIDE
with clandestinely acquired foreign govern ment information from CIA‘s Hydra program. In
this multi—phased project, DTI provides CIA with TIDE data and it is correlated with Hydra
information to uncover additional Terrorism Information (TI) on KSTs that is then used to
conduct Quality Assurance reviews on existing TIDE records. As proof ofconcept, DTI
provided CIA a list of 555 Pakistan based subjects identified as KSTs in TIDE. The Hydra
program vetted these names against Pakistani Passports and provided TIDE record
enhancement information (biographic and biometric identifiers] back to |)‘I'I. The next step
will be to provide CIA with a list oleDb' subjects with National ID Numbers f_~1,700] for
vetting on dates of birth. Future initiatives will include additional targeted countries, as
well as a targeted effort to locate first-time DOHs for subjects with Passports and National
lD Numbers.

(U/[FOUO] Watchlisting Guidance Review IPC: In 2013 the Watchlisting Guidance
Review IPC completed a major, multi-year effort to review and update the luly 2010

SECRETI/NOFORN Page 9

