SECRETIINOFORNIIMR

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE

SUBJECT: (UHFOUO) Sharing Communications Metadata Across the Intelligence
Community —DEC IS ION MEMORANDUM

PURPOSE: (UK/FOUO) To request the Director National Intelligence establish a US.
Intelligence Community-wide communications metadata sharing structure; to recommend
that the National Security Agency establish this structure along with appropriate query
tools, training and oversight; and, that Director, NSA be designated the IC Executive
Agent for IC-wide communications metadata.

BACKGROUND: (SKINF) Post 91 l, the IC has increased its needs for communications
metadata'. Currently, NSA collects, processes and stores vast amounts of
communications metadata related to worldwide intelligence targets. This SIGINT
information often includes the originator and recipient(s) identifiers, as well as the date,
time and duration of the transaction and, in some cases, locations of targets.

(SHNF) CIA, FBI. DIA and DEA also have access to communications transaction data
from their unique sources. These organizations, to include NSA, have benefited from
sharing this data through the CRISSCROSSIPROTON program since 1999. Presently,
NSA pushes roughly 60 million records per day (limited to telephony only) to PROTON,
resulting in over 30% of the total PROTON data set.

(SKINF) While the PROTON program has had many notable successes over the years,
today’s environment requires that the IC implement more holistic information sharing
and collaboration. In order to ensure the efficient and effective sharing of many millions
of new minimized communications metadata records daily, the IC must have a new
sharingfcollaboration structure that is scaleable to the larger IC and is capable of much
greater volume of data.

(SﬂNF) NSA stands alone in conducting metadata analysis on a large scale and as a
result, our tools and methodologies, as well as the infrastructure employed, are well
tested and have been proven efficient and effective over time. We already extensively

 

I *(C) Communications metadata refers to structured “data about data”: it includes all information
associated with, but not including content, and includes any data used by a network, service or application
to facilitate routing or handling of a communication or to render content in the intended format; it includes,
but is not limited to, dialing, routing, addressing, or signaling information and data in support of various
network management activities (e.g. billing, authentication or tracking of communicants).

Derived From: NSA/CSSM 1-52
Dated: 20041123
Declassify On: 20290325
SECRET/INOFORN/IMR

