SECRET/INOFORNIIMR
share metadata internally within the NSA/CSS extended enterprise and with our second
party partners.

(S/fN'F) Under this proposal, IC partners would have access through NSA’s
GLOBALREACH (the IC version will be called ICREAC H) service to more than 50
existing NSAICSS metadata fields contained in trillions of records as well as other IC
Agency communications metadata (predominantly resident today in PROTON). NSA’s
throughput to ICREACH would dwarf the volume oﬁNSA’s present contributions to
PROTON, as well as the input of all other IC contributors. Those fields revealing
sources and methods or sensitive foreign relationships within metadata records would not
be shared. Moreover, NSA is preparing to include DNI (digital network intelligence)
data in GLOBALREACH/ICREACH, a change that would also exponentially increase
NSA's contributions to the IC’s communications metadata structure.

DISCUSSION: (SKINF) NSA proposes that the DNI establish a new IC-wide
communications metadata structure with requisite tools, training and intelligence
oversight. This structure will consist of data repositories at various IC Agencies all
interlinked through a web based analytic query structure via JWICS whereby IC
personnel can make one query to access all sharable communications metadata. This
structure will also allow IC personnel to choose the data they wish to query and the set of
tools they desire to display and analyze the data.

(SI/NF) This structure will allow unprecedented volumes ofcommunications metadata to
be shared and analyzed. This structure will use the Intelligence Community Shared
Information Space (ICSIS) carved out in Intelink and protected by community PKI access
authorization. Having such a structure will provide the IC with access to NSAICSS and
other IC-element metadata, as well as the intemal ‘federated query“ that NSA analysts
use to correlate these information elements and enrich the results with knowledge from
our analytic reference files and other collaboration. This proposal will address existing
IC-wide stated needs for additional NSA communications metadata elements and take the
IC to an unprecedented level of information sharing.

(S/fN'F) This initiative is in keeping with the 9/11 and President’s WMD Commissions”
recommendations on information sharing, the President’s various Executive Orders
related to information sharing, and your own announced goals on information sharing and
collaboration.

(S) This initiative was intended to facilitate a new level ofsharing information across the
IC for situational awareness, lead information, adversary analysis, and targeting and will
add to the process of greater information sharing across the IC.

RECOMMENDATION: (SKINF) I believe the time is right to designate an IC Executive
Agency for sharing communications metadata as an integral part of a greater IC sharing
environment. SIGINT metadata is a vast, rich source of information to build community
collaboration and target knowledge and the emerging intelligence based target social
network analysis discipline. NSA is prepared to accept this role and build the
communications metadata coalition the IC needs for both current target tracking and
future threat warning.

(SHNF) To this end, my staffs have been meeting with CIA, DIA, FBI and DEA
metadata users and technical experts to work out the details of this proposal. Once

SECRET/INOFORNIIMR

