SECRET/IN OF ORN/IMR

HUMINT, SIGINT, Open and law enforcement related sources to analysts in US. law
enforcement and intelligence communities at a CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN level. The
key data elements are stored and retrieved for display by the PROTON Interface include:
called and calling telephone numbers, date, time, and duration ofcalls.

(SHNF) For approximately the last 5 V2 years, the CIA CRISSCROSS (now PROTON)
program has been incorporating NSA provided SIGINT-derived (US. and SecondfThird
Party) data. NSA provides this information to CRISSCROSS/PROTON Agencies for

(SHNF) The decision to disseminate SIGINT-derived signaling outside COMINT
Channels also hadpolicy and operational dimensions. Tests have demonstrated that
SIGINT- derived and traditional HUMINT-derived call record data can be stored and
displayed in a manner which makes them appear to be indistinguishable, which in general
terms make the risks to sources and methods approximately equal. However, under some
circumstances, e.g., signaling data form a unique target area, which could have come only
from a sensitive SIGINT source, dissemination ofdata to CRISSCROSS would be
in_ap_pgpriai. This is the case when the data also includes information elements that are
only available and could only come from exploitation of signaling. The MOA is silent on
this point, leaving to NSA full decision authority to decide which data to provide and not
provide.

 

(C) For several years prior, NSA had been providing SIGINT-derived signaling
information to CIA and DEA to support multi-agency counter narcotics analysis, as
approved by DDO, OGC, and the Office of Policy. Calling data from several Latin
American collectors, and from Thailand, had been of great value to the DEA and to the

DC] Crime and Narcotics Center, and there were no adverse operational or legal impacts
to NSA.

(SKINF) Operationally, the flow of large volumes of intercepted signaling data
could place additional burden on NSA’s IT infrastructure. While, as above, the MOA did
not address IT infrastructure, NSA retained full discretion over volume and timing of
information flow, even as NSA chose to support the CRISSCROSSIPROTON program
with certain SIGINT inputs.

(SKINF) Requisite human and communications resources are in place in SID to
support the transfer of moderate volumes of signaling-derived call record data to the CIA
CRISSCROSSIPROTON Program Office. No increase in personnel was required to
initiate data flow. Under the terms of MOA, CIA provided the list of US overseas
commercial phone numbers to be minimized in NSA processing of signaling data.
Similarly, the Department of State and Department of Defense telephone directories will
be researched by NSA to identify official US government overseas phone numbers in
order to minimize call records associated with them. To this end, the NSA
CRISSCROSSIPROTON Program Manager agreed to obtain the DOS and DOD
directories annually and, with CIA assistance, extract the overseas numbers. That
function was transferred to the Communications Event Analysis Center (CEAC), in SZS,
in 2004. The software to extract call record data and to support minimization exists on a

Handle Via COMINT Channels Only
SECRET/[NOFORNI/MR

