SECRET/lN OF ORN/lMR

server under SZS control. A huge volume of signaling data (~400M records) ﬂows to that
server on a daily basis to meet NSA analytic needs. and sufficient communication
bandwidth is currently available to support the transfer of processed call records (~37M
per day) to CIA’s CRISSCROSSXPROTON Program for reformatting. We anticipate 821
will continue to be responsible for loading CIA CRISSCROSSIPROTON output on
NSA's CRISSCROSSXPROTON server, and CEAC will continue to be responsible for
maintaining minimization and audit controls on all-source data received from CIA.
Finally, SID Office of Oversight and Compliance would be responsible for oversight of
USSID 18 compliance.

(S) Community analytic interest in dialing analysis continues to grow and is
directed at discovery of new specific targets or topics, and demand for additional call
record volume to support contact chaining and geolocation has increased. Signaling links
are competing for collection priorityijust like any other potential SIGINT target. As with
other targets, the potential to expand collection is limited by available resources, to
include field processing of signaling links as well as bandwidth to support forwarding
from collection sites to NSA.

(SHNF) The CRISSCROSS program, in which NSA already participates as a user
ofdata, has had notable successes since its inception in 1990, such as enabling major
narcotics arrests, monitoring Ramsi Yousef‘s colleagues, unraveling the Mubarak
assassination plot, and providing insight into Pakistani nuclear weapon test activities. The
program has received high marks from senior Community levels, such as the PFIAB, and
Assistant DCI’s for both Collection and Production. CRISSCROSS was also cited in the
report by Admiral Jeremiah on Indian nuclear testing as a potential improvement to
Community analytic strength. Since 9!] l, the contributions to the GWOT due to our
increased collection of signaling metadata are innumerable and significant. It is safe to
say that it has been a contribution to virtually every successful rendition of suspects and
often, the deciding factor. Hence the benefit to the intelligence and law enforcement
communities of any SIGINT-augmented inputs could be considerable, as SIGINT has the
potential to access a broad range of targets.

CURRENT PROPOSAL: (SUNF) Ref A. requests additional data elements from
SIGINT collection be included in the data set transferred to PROTON. Specifically, they
want mobility management information relating to digital cellular and mobile satellite
systems to include Global Cell ID’s, Location Area Codes, spot beams, International
Mobile Subscriber Identifications, International Mobile Equipment Identifications,
LatitudefLongitude, and Inmarsat Return ID’s. They also requested content from Short
Message Service exchanges (which we are required to audit queries against).

DISCUSSION: (SHNF) The current data push to CIAIPROTON is roughly 40
Million records per day which has resulted in approximately 30% of the PROTON data
set (1996-2005) coming from SIGINT sources (2002-2005). The addition of the
requested data elements would more than double the volume ofdata sent to PROTON on
a daily basis. This would increase the percentage of SIGINT contribution to PROTON
significantly. CIA is positing PROTON as the community resource for targetilead

Handle Via COMINT Channels Only
SECRET/[NOFORNI/MR

