Chapter Three — Holding the Five Eyes to account

 

The recent revelations of global surveillance practices have prompted a fundamental re-
examination of the responsibility of States under international law with respect to cross-
border surveillance. The patchwork of secret spying programmes and intelligence-
sharing agreements implemented by parties to the Five Eyes arrangement constitutes an
integrated global surveillance arrangement that now covers the majority of the world’s
communications.

At the heart of this arrangement are carefully constructed legal frameworks that provide
differing levels of protections for internal versus external communications, or those
relating to nationals versus non-nationals. These frameworks attempt to circumvent
national constitutional or human rights protections governing interferences with the right
to privacy of communications that, States contend, apply only to nationals or those
within their territorial jurisdiction.

In doing so, the Five Eyes states not only defeat the spirit and purpose of international
human rights instruments; they are in direct violation of their obligations under such
instruments. Human rights obligations apply to all individuals subject to a State’s
jurisdiction.107 Jurisdiction extends not only to the territory of the State, but to anyone
within the power and effective control of the State, even if they are outside the
territory.108 It is argued here that jurisdiction extends to situations where a State
interferes with the right to privacy of an individual whose communications are
intercepted, stored or processed within that State’s territory. In such circumstances, the
State owes obligations to that individual regardless of their location.

By understanding State jurisdiction over human rights violations in this way we can give
effect to international human rights obligations in the digital age. Through the concept of
”interference-based jurisdiction", whereby, subject to permissible limitations, States owe
a general duty not to interfere with communications that pass through their territorial
borders, mass surveillance is cognisable within a human rights framework in a way that
provides rights and remedies to affected individuals. Without such a perspective on
responsibility for violations that properly reflects the nature and scope of Five Eyes
surveillance, and the way in which privacy violations occur, States will continue to
conduct surveillance in a way that renders human rights obligations meaningless.

 

‘07 ICCPR, Article 2: ”Each State Party to the present Covenant undertakes to respect and to ensure to all
individuals within its territory and subject to its jurisdiction...”; ECHR, Article 1: “The High Contracting
Parties shall secure to everyone within their jurisdiction the rights and freedoms defined in Section | of this
Convention,” American Convention on Human Rights, Article 1: ”The States Parties to this Convention
undertake to respect the rights and freedoms recognized herein and to ensure to all persons subject to
theirjurisdiction the free and full exercise of those rights and freedoms, without any discrimination for
reasons of race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin,
economic status, birth, or any other social condition."

‘08 Human Rights Committee General Comment 51, para 10.

30

