Regardless of their location or nationality, all individuals are entitled to have their right to
privacy respected not only by the State upon whose territory they stand, but by the
State within whose territory their rights are exercised. If their communications pass
through the territory of another State, and that State interferes with the communications,
it will activate that State’sjurisdiction under international human rights law. Accordingly,
the US and UK owe the same obligation to each individual whose communications pass
through their territory: not to interfere with those communications, subject to permissible
limitations established under international law. Such ”interference-based jurisdiction”
obligations extend globally, regardless of boundaries.

Five Eyes legal frameworks that circumvent human rights obligations

Each of the Five Eyes members have complex legal frameworks governing the
interception, monitoring and retention of communications content and data. This paper
does not attempt to comprehensively outline such frameworks, and only excerpts some
relevant provisions to illustrate the obfuscatory nature of legal frameworks that enable
the rights of non-nationals or those outside the territory to be diminished.

United States
FlSA section 1881a is entitled ”Procedures for targeting certain persons outside the
United States other than United States persons”.

Section 1881(a) ss (a) provides:

(a) the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence may authorize
jointly, for a period of up to 1 year from the effective date of the authorization,
the targeting of persons reasonably believed to be located outside the United
States to acquire foreign intelligence information.

An authorisation pursuant to FlSA section 1881(a) permits ”foreign intelligence
information” to be obtained both by directly intercepting communications during
transmission and by making a request to an electronic service provider that stores the
information to make it available to the authorities.

United Kingdom

The Regulation of lnvestigatory Powers Act 2000 distinguishes between ”interna
”external” surveillance. Where the communication is internal (i.e. neither sent nor
received outside the British lslands, see RIPA s 20), a warrant to permit lawful
interception must describe one person as the ”interception subject” (s 8(1)(a)) or
identify a ”single set of premises” for which the interception is to take place (s 8(1)(b)).
The warrant must set out ”the addresses, numbers, apparatus or other factors, or
combination of factors, that are to be used for identifying the communications that may
be or are to be intercepted” (s 8(2)).

III

and

III

Where the communication is ”externa , that is either sent or received outside the British
lslands, RIPA s 8(1) and 8(2) do not apply. There is no need to identify any particular
person who is to be subject of the interception or a particular address that will be

38

