all rights and freedoms. The Human Rights Committee has deemed nationality a ground
of ”other status” with respect of article 2(1) of the ICCPR in Gueye and ors v France.139

It is both irrational and contrary to the spirit and purpose of international human rights
norms to suppose that the privacy of a person’s communications could be accorded
different legal weight according to their nationality or residence. An equivalent
distinction on the basis of ethnicity or gender would be deemed to be manifestly
incompatible with human rights law; why then should States be able to purport to offer
varying protections based on an individual’s nationality or location? If an individual within
a State’s jurisdiction is granted lower or diminished human rights protections — or indeed
is deprived of such protections — solely on the basis of their nationality or location, this
will not only lead to a violation of the right they seek to enjoy, but will amounts to an
interference with their right to be free from discrimination.

Towards an understanding of interference-based jurisdiction

Individuals have a legitimate expectation that their human rights will be respected not
only by the State upon whose territory they stand, but by the State within whose territory
their rights are exercised. The current legal frameworks of the Five Eyes States purport
to discriminate between the rights and obligations owed to nationals or those physically
within their territory, and those outside of it, or non-nationals. Yet the concept of
jurisdiction, under human rights law, is not a rigid one. States have interference-based
jurisdiction for particular negative human rights obligations when the interference with
the right occurs within their territory. The way the global communications infrastructure is
built requires that the right to privacy of communications can be exercised globally, and
communications can be monitored in a place far from the location of the individual to
whom they belong. Accordingly, the States Parties to the Five Eyes arrangement have
jurisdiction over — and thus owe obligations to — individuals whose communications they
monitor, which jurisdiction is invoked when the State interferes with the communication
of an individual, thus infringing upon their right to privacy.

This understanding of jurisdiction and human rights obligations pertaining to the right to
privacy is key to ensuring that individuals can seek redress against global surveillance
arrangements that are threatening their rights to privacy and free expression.

 

‘39 Gueye and Others v. France (Comm. No. 196/1985)

41

