TOP SEC RETI/ C OMINT/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL/l20320108

¥ff!ff'ff'Tff?'1'1'?‘ff???ff?'TTTTff'ff'ff'fffff'ffofiff'

(U) Defense Computing Bytes:

(Uf/FOUO) For general information on R23 Defense Com
capabilities and current efforts

 
 
 

(U) R23 Supports Graduate Math Program Large Graph Research

(Uf/FOUO) For 12 weeks over the summer of 2008 the Graduate Math Program (GMP)1
participants wrestled, wrangled, quantified and processed more than 20063 of network traffic
metadata generated by R23’s FLOWBEE project. FLOWBEE is a spin—off of the POPQUIZ
project, which collects network metadata on high bandwidth protocols such as HTTP, SMTP,
and DNS. FLOWBEE uses novel techniques to efficiently recognize and discard duplicate
relations, significantly reducing the volume of saved data. This data reduction, in
combination with the highly efficient POPQUIZ2 processing framework, allows FLOWBEE
to collect metadata for every session on high—speed links.

(Uf/FOUO) This rich and varied dataset provided fertile ground for their explorations in large
graph analysis and characterization. Led by Technical Directors from R1 and R6, participants
focused on finding malicious activity in the data, modeling graphs produced by the
FLOWBEE data, and investigating high—performance computing architectures to determine
their applicability to processing FLOWBEE data and related large graph problems.

(Uf/FOUO) As the problem supporters for GMP, R23’s DIO team provided data, loaded and
indexed the data in a MySQL database, and installed the FLOWBEE Surf web interface in the
GMP’s lab. R23 also provided training and consulting on the FLOWBEE data and associated
processing tools, presented findings from prior research, and participated in workshop and
brainstorming sessions during the course of the summer. On 31 July 2008, the GMP and R2
DIO team members presented their findings to DIRNSA and D/DIRNSA.

(Uf/FOUO) This summer’s GMP work resulted in numerous improved capabilities that have
been incorporated into existing R23 technology. The big wins from this activity were:
I A new algorithm for detecting web spam, which found confirmed new malicious hosts

0 An improved BadRank algorithm for rating the badness of a host based on its
connections

 

1 (Uf/FOUO) GMP is a competitive 12-week summer program run by R1. It provides an opportunity for
exceptional mathematics graduate students to work directly with NSA mathematicians on mission-critical
problems and experience the excitement of the NSA mathematics community.

2 (UI/FOUO) See July 2008 EDGE Newsletter for additional information on POPQUIZ.
11

TOP SECRET/fCOMINT/I’REL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZLI/20320108

