TOP SEC RET/l C OMINT/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL/l20320108

(TS/fSI/fREL) TUNDRA —— Electronic codebooks, such as the Advanced Encryption
Standard, are both widely used and difficult to attack cryptanalytically. NSA has only a
handful of in—house techniques. The TUNDRA project investigated a potentially new
technique —— the Tau statistic —— to determine its usefulness in codebook analysis. This project
was supported by—of R21.

(S/fSI/fREL) CLOUD —— Cloud computing is a paradigm to perform massive computations in
parallel on a cluster of computers via a "map—reduce" model. The DSP students researched
how amenable cloud computing is to various graph algorithms. The team successfully
implemented the graph algorithms k—cores and k—trusses as well as two Agency contact
chaining algorithms, STARFIRE (developed by DSP 1999) and CARPAT, in the map——reduce
framework. Their research suggests most graph algorithms fit naturally in the framework.

Further, this framework su orts the ability to process larger data sets. This project was
supported bydof R1.

(Uf/FOUO) This summer the students made good progress on these and five other projects. A
report detailing all of the work done will be published by R1 in the fall of 2008.

(or/Four» POC: Dr. _ R211, —

(UIIFOUO) Support for l54 Code Review

(Uf/FOUO) Earlier this yea_ Chief of 154, solicited volunteers to support a
DIRNSA and Director of IAD chartered review of approximately 100,000 lines of Ada 83
code. _forward deployed from R21 and serving as 1542 Technical Director,
enlisted R213 to provide support with automated software analysis tools.

(TSI/REL_ R213, led the automated analysis effort using the tool PolySpace
for Ada to analyze the code. PolySpace for Ada employs “abstract interpretation” to analyze
code for a variety of errors such as uninitialized variables, integer overflow, et cetera. The
initial automated analysis identified some non—standard software features requiring more
extensive examination. — then teamed with_ R213, to assist
with the analysis and provide results to — 1543. As noted by Mr. - the
automated code analysis discoveries provided “valuable” results, and complemented a parallel
154 manual code analysis effort by highlighting several items undiscovered by the manual
analysis team.

(TS/IREL) Analyzing and debugging software code on fielded systems is a time—consuming,
expensive operation. Using automated techniques to identify coding abnormalities and bugs
in system software prior to fielding reduces the overall cost of fixing software errors by an
order of magnitude and significantly increased the quality of the deployed software. To this
end, R213 continues to research the development of software environments and software
languages focused on integrating automated analysis within the design and development
stages of the software development lifecycle.

(Uf/FOUO POCs: R213, (301—
R213,

TOP SECRET/fCOMINT/I’REL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZLI/20320108

