TOP SEC RETI/ C OMINT/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL/l20320108

environment of multiple networks at various security levels — namely, the need for users to
access multiple systems (also known as domains) in a secure way.

(Uf/FOUO) The central purpose of most research is to explore what’s “next.” Instead of a
known desired end-state, this process often begins with a question, such as “are there better
approaches to secure software?” - many ideas are then tested to try to find the answer. That
particular question remains central to R213 High Confidence Software and Systems (HCSS)
Focus Area research into how Formal Methods and mathematical proofs could ensure the
“correctness” of software design. In this example, the HCSS team explored possible solutions
and eventually developed a small-scale, Java-based proof-of-concept.

(Uf/FOUO) Meanwhile, in other areas of NIARL, another question was being asked within
the Authentication team, “how can commercial smart card technologies be leveraged to
provide assured identity for access to sensitive systems?” Over the years, smart cards (and
smart card chipsets) rapidly progressed from their origins storing monetary value for
European pay phones, to then becoming unique identifiers for mobile phones, and ultimately
finding use as personal identification (and even DoD user authentication for unclassified
systems). As the technology evolved, IA research explored approaches to leverage these
technologies toward our goals. But that sparked other questions, such as “what do we do
about software from unknown or risky sources?”

(Uf/FOUO) The “a-ha!” moment came from a convergence of these two problem sets
courtesy of the Java Card standard for smart cards. Could Formal Methods lead to a proven
Java-based operating system and provide assurance for commercially-based smart cards? In
partnership with HCSS, Research Integration took the Formal Methods proof-of-concept
approach and applied it to the real-world smart card problem. The lofty goal? Assured (and
unclassified) multi-domain tokens for community identity and authentication.

(Uf/FOUO) The resulting Tokens Assurance Software research within Research Integration
just completed the prototype of a functional and mathematically proven Java Card operating
system. In addition, these software assurance techniques were expanded to develop tools to
create assured applets to run on the cards. We will also soon complete some advanced
hardware prototypes featuring physical protection concepts which will further demonstrate the
“integrated” potential for how to provide strong authentication for access to critical systems.

(Uf/FOUO) To extend the concept, Research Integration will leverage additional NIARL
exploration into yet another pressing IA research question, “how can virtualization
technologies provide the foundation for future trusted computing platforms?” In partnership
with fellow Focus Areas, Research Integration is prototyping early versions of these
approaches to investigate how they could enable assured information sharing, authentication
and access control, as well as mobility for users. In this way, the initial breakthroughs of
software assurance, secure tokens, and platform trust could start to create answers to real
operational questions, such as “How can we transform the way user identity is protected to
enable cross-community collaboration?”

TOP SECRET/fCOMINT/I’REL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZLI/20320108

