TOP SEC RETI/ C OMINT/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL/l20320108

(UIIFOUO) POC: _ R222, —

(UIIFOUO) Sandia Trip Highlights R225’s Anti-Tamper Research Progress

(Sf/REL) Use of commercial components in a high assurance solution for national security
applications will require physical protection mechanisms. In the past, with government built
solutions, anti—tamper was part of the design and manufacture process. Today, use of COTS
will require the government to apply these protections after production. R225’s Intelligent
Reaction Anti—Tamper (AT) research program showcased the ability to provide these physical
protection mechanisms at a recent program review at Sandia National Laboratories.

(Sf/REL) Several key technologies were demonstrated:
0 Multi—layer conformal AT on printed circuit boards with integrated control logic;
I iPhones with hard aftermarket device encapsulation; and
0 Chip packages retrofitted with active anti—tamper capability, including internal power.

(S/fREL) Remaining FY08 research into conformal AT technology will support R223’s
secure token effort. Starting in FY09, 1823 will assume full responsibility for further
development of this AT technology as a part of R225’s partnerships forged to realize a full
life cycle: from research through implementation. R225 and I823 are working together to
advance the aftermarket device encapsulation technology to the same level of technical
readiness, with SID’s NUCLEARWINTER team as a potential initial customer. R225 will
continue research on the modified chip packaging technology in FY09, and will work with
IAD to identify potential end—users.

: an ,
Uf/FOUO POC d R225

(UIIFOUO) R225IDepartment of Energy Engagement Yields Idaho
National Labs Research

(Sf/REL) Researchers from Idaho National Labs (INL) visited NSA on 26 August 2008 to
demonstrate INL progress on research into secure erasure for commercial memory modules.
INL is moving towards a method of retrofit zeroization capability for synchronous dynamic
random access memory (SDRAM) in commercial desktops, with an initial prototype expected
by the end of FY08. This work is similar to R225’s Adaptive Zeroization research, but trades
greatly reduced applicability and scope for lower risk. Personnel from R225, IAD’s
Microelectronics Anti—Tamper Solutions Branch (18231), and IAD’s Cryptographic Engines,
Modules, and Tokens Division (1853) participated in the discussion. This research was
sponsored by R225, and funded by the Department of Energy’s 2008 Applied Technologies
Program. R225 is beginning discussions with its IAD partners to determine the best way to
move forward with integrating INL’s work into NSA’s future anti—tamper mission.

(UIIFOUO) POC: — R225,—

TOP SECRET/fCOMINT/I’REL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZLI/20320108

