SECTREI'HJ'CDMIl‘k'I'i'i'RiiL'11) USA. ALB. CAN. UBRﬂL-‘lﬂ‘jll [13

United States SIGINT System 5
January 2007 Strategic Mission List

Introduction: — Director’s Intent

(33:31) The SIGIN'I‘ Strategic Mission List represents the intent ol‘ the Director, National Security Agency
in regard to mission priorities and risks for the United States SlGlNT System (USE-SS] over the nerd 1243
months. The list is derived front review of the Intelligence Community National Intelligence Priorities
Framework, DCli'DNl Guidance, the Strategic Vilarning List, National SIGINT Requirements Process
thSRP) and other strategic planning documents The missions included on the list are in relative priority
order and represent the most urgent tasks for the USES. The list is not intended to be all encompassing, but
is intended to set forth guidance on the highest priorities.

Topical Missions and Enduring Targets

(SHED The SIGINT Strategic Mission List is div idc-d into two parts. it uteludcs 16 critical topical missions
in Part I ol‘the list, which represent missions discerned to he areas of highest priorityr for the USES, where
SIGINT can make he}r contributions. In addition to the IE critical topical missions, Part II of the SIGINT
Strategic Mission list includes ti enduring targets that are included due to the need to work these targets
holistically because of their strategic importance. in addition to their long—term strategic im penance, the
enduring targets can potentially “trump” the highest priority topical missions on the list at any time, based
upon evolving world events. Elements of these targets are also represented throughout the topical target
sets. For each of the [-5 topical missions and each of the 6 enduring tangets the Strategic Mission List
includes:

1} Focus Areas — critically important targets against which the SIGINT enterprise is placing emphasis.
DIRESA designation of a target as a focus area constitutes his guidance to the SIGINT System that it is a
”must do" target for that mission

2} Accepted Risks strategically Significant targets against which the USES is not placing emphasis and
for which SIGIT‘IT should not be relied upon as a primary,r source. DiRNSA’s reasons for accepting these
risks include high difficulty and lack of resources or as an “Economyr of Force Measure," in order to
achieve focus on the most critical targets.

A Strategic Investment Tool for SIGINT Resources

(SHED Given a Finite level of resources available in all mission areas, the Strategic Mission List provides
high—level strategic direction to the global SIGIN'I' system to toe as resources on the most important-highest
priority areas. “Risks” identify targets that cannot be resourced to the level of an Focus Area, thereby
acknowledging that shortfalls will exist. As world elrcurnstances change, these or other targets can be
added to the list as needed; targets no longer ot‘critieal Importance can also be removed from the Focus
Area category. In addition, other targets, not listed as focus or risk areas, can also be worked by the U533
to a lesser degree to meet other customer requirements. The Strategic Mission List Itvill be reviewed bi-
annually by the USES Signals intelligence leadership Team. Missions. Focus areas, and Accepted Risks
will be aclittsted as a means ofproviding high—level steetegc to the Nation‘s agile SIGIXT System.

Derived From: “ISAJCSSM 1—53
Dated: lllttatl I2?5
DecldSSll'j' On: Etlﬂfll IE}
SECREI'HJ'CDMII‘L'I‘J‘lREL 'I'D llSPc 11L 3. CAN. GERI'JElJEUl [13

