SECRET.-'-"C0h-IlNT.-".-rREL TO USA, AUS. F AN, GBR-‘.-"2029| 1'23

United States SIGINT System Strategic Mission List —
January 2007

(U) 1. Strategic Mission List - Topical Missions

t_S.-".-“Sl) A. MISSION: Terrorism: Winning the Global War on Terrorism.
Focus Areas:

:1. All lnteragencjt' Intelligence Committee on Terrorism {lICT'i Tier 0 and 1 terrorist groups with
capabilities and intentions to attack the US. its interests or allies. or groups actively planning or
causing out a terrorist attack against LI .5. persons. facilities. or interests

b. Key indwiduais and 'l'errorist Support Entities {1315) involved in the facilitation- financing. and
recruitment or radicalisation ofall iICT Tier 0 and I terrorist group networks globally.

Accepted Risks: All "(IT Tier 2, 3, and 4 terrorist groups, and TSEs.

(SE-El) B. MISSION: Homeland Security: Protecting the 1.1.5. Homeland from terrorist attack and
other transnational threats to safeguard LLS. persons. freedoms. critical information. infrastructure.
property and economy.
Focus Areas:

a. Border Security- (land. air. sea}.

b. Direct defense agatnst terrorist attack.

e. Diseases. epidemics, and pandemics.

:1 Executive Protection»"[.|.S.-Based NSS Es

e. Illicit Facilitation as it relates to special interest aliens and CBRN materials and technology.
Accepted Risks:

a Accepted n'sks as stated in the "Terrorism“ mission

h. Global coverage ot‘al] illictt aenvnies efpotential concern to the Homeland.

{SffSIﬂREL [15.4. AIJS. CAN. GER} C. MISSION: “‘Ml] and CBRN Programs and Proliferation:
Combating the Threat of Development and Proliferation ochapons of Mass Destruction. CHI“.
and Delivery Methods (particularly ballistic and nuclear-capable cruise missiles].
Focus Areas:
in. Development. Acouisition. or Use orCBRN.
b.5tate WMD and ballistic and cruise missile programs of:
China (biological. chemical. nuclear. ballistic and cruise missiles)
India (nuclear. ballistic missiles)
Iran (biological. chemical, nuclear. and ballistic missiles)
North Korea (biological. chemical. nuclear. ballistic missiles]
Pakistan (nuclear. ballistic missiles)
Russia (biological. chemical. nuclear. ballistic and cruise missiles)
Syria (chemical. nuclear. ballistic missiles).
c. “f.“ D and missile proliferation activities by states:
China (nuclear. ballistic missiles}. Israel (cruise missiles}
North Korea (nuclear. ballistic missiles}

SECRETu’-"COMINT.-".-'REL TU USA- AUS. CAN, GER-T-EOZW 1'23

