SECRETI-"Cfli't‘llNT.-".-’REL TO USA, AUS1 F AN. GBR-i-"ZOZFH 123

Pakistan (nuclear, ballistic missiles)
Russia (ballistic misaile].

tiJVMD and missile acquisition activities by states:
China {cruise n1 issilcs)
India (cruise missiles)
Iran (nuclear, ballistic missiles)
Pakistan [cruise missilcs]
Saudi Arabia (nuclear, ballistic missiles).

e. iial'etg.r and Security of WWII):
Pakistan [nuclear]
Russia (nuclear).

Acccptcd Risks:

State WMD and ballistic and cruise missile programs of:
Hg}; pt {ballistic missiles)
Libya [ballistic missiles]
Taiwan (ballistic missiles}.

[Sit-{SI} D. MISSION: ILS. Forces at Risk (Military Support): Protecting ILS. l'trlilitarg.r F orces
Deployed Overseas and Enabling their Opcrations.
Focus Areas:

a. US, Forces dcpioyctl in: Iraq. Afghanistan, Mideast Region, Korea. and Philippines.

b. Support to military planning and operations: Support to OPLAN 502? (Korea).

c. lntcntions of ibrciirni and Indigcnous anti-coalition forccs. command and control, DOB. and

operational support in Iraq and Afghanistan.

d. Support to 1.1.3. forces in identiﬁcation of HVTs in Aijghanistan-r Pakistan and Iraq.
Accepted Risks:

a Protection of US Forces deployed in: Balkans (Hos-oval.

b. South Korea leadership intentions in OPla‘tN 5027.

c. Routine military support to US. forces dcploycd in non-combat srtuatrons.

t'S.-".-“S|) E. MISSION: Statcil’olitical Stability: Providing Warning of Impending State Instability.
Focus Areas:

:1. Intcnial political activities that could threaten the survivability of leadership in countries where US
has interest in regime continuity. Iraq. sighanistan. Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia.

b. Internal political activities that could result in crisrs in. Forth Korea, Sudan-"Dalia humanitarian cri sis.
Cuba, Kosovo, Tut-kc}: Nigeria. Lebanon. Venezuela. Syria. Bolivia. Latin American Bolivarian
Developments, anti Pa] cstinran Authority.

Accepted Risks: internal political stability of: Egypt, Zimbabwe, Cote d'lvoire, Liberia, DROC ,
Bangladesh, Georgia Jordan, and Haiti.

tS.-".-"S|) F. MISSION: 1lilr‘arning ol’Strategic Nuclear Missile Threats: Providing Warning ofa
Strategic Nuclear Missile attack on the territory oftlte 50 United States

Focus Areas: Areas covered under a peacetime SIGINT strategy maintaining l'ull capabilities with
reasonany so fﬁcient coverage for the provision of warning include: Ru ssia's Nuclear (.3, Mobile

SECRETI"."(_'O]'t-IINT.-"."REL TO USA- .‘-\US. CAN. GBR".-"2029l 1'23

