SEC RETIH'COMINT.-".I’R£L TC} USA. AUS. CAN. GBR-‘.-"2029[ 123

ll Activities ot‘statc and non-state actors (gray.r anus dealers] in supplying advanced conventional
weapons.
c. "I‘lircats posed by lbrcign space and counter-space systems. China and Russia-
Accepted Risks:
:1 Weapons and force developments in: Saudi Arabia. and indie.
b. “treats posed by foreign space and counter-space systems India and France.

{Eli-"SD J. MISSION: Emegging Strategic Technologies: Preventing Technological Surprise.

Focus Areas: Critical technologies that could provide a strategic military, economic, or political
advantage: high energy lasers, low energy lasers, advances in computing and information technology,
directed energy weapons. stealth and counterwstealth. electronic warfare technologies. space and remote
sensing. eiec-tro—optics. nanotechnologies. energetic materials. The emerging strategic technology threat is
expected to come mainly from Russia. China. lndia. Japan. Germany. France. Korea. Israel. Singapore. and
Sweden.

Accepted Risks: Technological advances andl'or basic SEET development on a global basns elsewhere.

 

t'Sl'fSl) K. MISSION: Foreign Policy [(includes Intention of Nations and Multinational Organ:
Ensuring Diplomatic Advantage for the [33.

Focus Areas: Positions. objectives. programs. and actions on the pan of governments or multilateral
organizations that could signiﬁcantly impact US. national security interests: China. Russia. France.
Gennanv. Japan, Iran. Israel. Saudi Arabia. North Korea. Afghanistan. Iraq. UN. Venezuela, Syria.
Turkey. Mexico, South Korea. India. and Pakistan.

Accepted Risks: Positions, objectives, programs1 and actions on the part of govcmmcnts or multilateral
organisations that could impact 1.1.3. foreign policy or security interests: Taiwan.

t'S.-".lSI) L. MISSION: Energy Security: Ensuring a Steady and Reliable Energy Supply for the US.
Focus Areas: Threats to the production and global distribution-transportation of energy supplies of: Iraq,
Saudi Arabia. Venezuela. Iran. Russia and Nigeria. Accepted Risks: Global impact of the state of energy
industries in: Mexico and China.

 

iSLr'Sl) M. MISSION: Foreign Intelligence, Counterintelligence; Denial d: Deception Activities:
Countering Foreign Intelligence ‘I'hreats.

Focus Areas: Espionagelintelligcnce collection operations and manipulationfinl‘luence operations
conducted by foreign intelligence services directed against US. government. military. science 8-:
technology and Intelligence Community from: China. Russia. C aha. Israel. Iran. Pakistan. North Korea
France. Venezuela. and South Korea

Accepted Risks: Espionager’intelligence collection operations against [5.5. govemment. military, science
:5: technology and Intelligence Community from: Taiwan and Saudi Arabia

 

SECRET:’J'COMINT.-"r'REL TD USA- ALFS. CAN. GBR.".-"2039[ 1'23

