SECRET.-’-"COMINT.-".-’REL TO USA, AUS1 C AN. GBR-l-"ZOZQI 123

(Si-“51) N. MISSION: Narcotics and Transnational Criminal Syndicates and Networks: Mitigating
the impact on US. national interests from drug trafﬁcking organizations [DTOs} and transnational
criminal syndicates and networks {TCSNsL
Focus Areas:

a. [Hills and associated enabling activities in Afghanistan, Mexico and Colombia that threaten

US. interests.

h. TCSNs based in (or originating in) Russia that threaten [1.5. or allied interests.

c. tyloney laundering that benefits 'I‘CSNs thl‘tltL into. and out of Colombia and Mexico.

d. Criminal facilitators acting as a nexus between crimei’nareoﬁcs and terrorism.

e. State-sponsored money laundering by Iran and North Korea.
Accepted Risks:

a Drug productionr'trafﬁcking within the Golden Triangle. China. and North Korea.

I). TC‘SNs operating in Central Asia, former Easlem Europe. and fisia.

c. Criminal associated money laundering in Afghanistan. and Iraq.
Stale-sponsored money laundering by Syria.

 

(35.55” 0. MISSION: Economic Stabilityflnfluence: Ensuring 1.1.5. Economic Advantage and Policy
Strategies.

Focus Areas: Economic stability. ﬁnancial vulnerability. and economic inﬂuence of states of strategic
interest to the US: China. Japan. Iraq. and Brazil.

Accepted Risks: Economic stability, financial vulnerability. and economic inﬂ ueiice ol‘states ol‘ strategic
interest to the US: 'l’url-tey and India.

t'S.-’.-“Sl) P. Mission: Global Signals Cognizauce: The core cont munications infrastructure and global
network information needed to achieve and maintain baseline knowledge. Capture knowledge of
location. cliarac-teriration. use. and status of military and civil communications infrastructure. including
command, control, communications and computer networks: intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance and
targeting systems; and associated structures incidental to pursuing Strategic Mission List priorities. Focus
ot'inission is creating knowledge databases that enable SIGINT efforts against future unanticipated threats
and allow continuity on economy of force targets not currently included on the Strategic Mission List.
Focus Areas:

Global Environment knowledge.

Signals knowledge.

Network knowledge.
Target knowledge.

Accepted Risks: Degree of maturity may greatly vary by target

SECRETJ’J'COMINT.-".*'REL TO USA- AUS. CAN. GER-3902‘.“ 1'23

