SEC RETIH'COMINTl‘r’REL TD USA; AUS. CAN. GBR-‘.-"20291 123

(U) ll. Strategic Mission List - Enduring Targets

(SEES!) A. MISSION: China: Enabling [1.3. policy and avoiding strategic surprise. Focus Areas:
Provide 1.5.5. decision makers with a holistic SIGINT perspective of trends and developments. in China,
assessing ancL’or predicting snategic direction. plans. intentions. and capabilities that impact US. interesrs.
Such analysis must consider China ’s strategic foreign and economic policy trends that impact U S.
interests or degrade LLS. inﬂuence; the pace. scope. doctrine. and economic sustainability of China‘s
military modernization, the proliferation ot‘ PRC weapons and technology; the prospects for regional
conﬂict or strategic nuclear attack; domestic economic transformation and its consequences for economic;
political; and social stability; subversive threats to US. institutions through hostile ll'llClllgL'l‘ict: and
information operations; and the interdependencies among these developments. Accepted Risks: Certain
domestic problem sets. such as demographic issues; lower-level political institutional growth; civil society
issues such as crime and human rights; environmental problems and planning; and agricultural production
and food security. nlso. issues that transcend national boundaries. such as Chinese involvement in
international organized crime; energy demand, production; and acquisition; and inflections disease and
health.

 

(SL'rSl) B. MISSION: North Korea: Enabling the US to counteract North Korea’s
developmentluselproliferation of Will). deter its aggression, and shape its behavior while
maintaining US. readiness for collupsel’wur. Focus Areas: Provide US. decision-makers with a holistic
SIGINT perspective of trends and developments in North Korea. asseasing andfor predicting strategic
direction. plans. intentions. and capabilities that impact US interests and provide warning of strategic
threat Such analysrs must consider the stability oil the North Korean regime and how it employs domestic
and foreign policies to maintain its gnp on power; the relationship between regime stabilitylbchavlor and
its access to income from illicit activities and weapons proliferation; how Chinese and South Korean
“carrots and sticks" enable or constrain North Korean behavior; the impact of the decayins1 North Korean
economy on military readiness: and how the interplay between LTS policy initiatives toward North Korea
and all of the above elements atTect North Korea’s strategic calculus. the material disposition of its nuclear
weapons. and the status of its military. Accepted Risks: For domestic issues. risks include non-defense
oriented industrial production. demographic issaes. and environmental problems. Regarding issues that
transcend borders risks include non-counterintelligence associated ties between North Korean state-
sponsorcd illicit activities and international organized crime institutions and individuals; North Korean
agent activity in South Korea and Japan; nonvstate sponsored comrption and illicit behavior; and North
Korean economic refugee flows into China

(S.-’.-“S|) C. MISSION: lrag: Enabling Coalition efforts to assist Iraq in establishing a secure. uniﬁed,
democratic. and sovereign state. Focus Areas: Provide US decision makers with a holistic SIGINT
perspective ol‘ trends and developments. assessing Iraq‘s progress toward establishing a viable. stable
govemment; scouring public order, suppressing insurgent opposition; ensuring reliable access to basic
services and commodities; safeguarding strategic resources; and restoring a more sound economic footing.
Provide intelligence on relevant factors; forces; leaders; and regional actors to liscilltatc U5. Govcrmnent

SECRETJ’ICOMINT-v'REL TC} USA- Alibi. CAN; GBR.".-"2039l 1'23

