SEC RETI-"CDl't-llNT.-".I’R£L TD USA. AUS. CAN. GBR-‘.-"2029l 123

policy or actions in support oi" the Iraqi process and to seize the. strategic communications initiative.
Accepted Risks: none

(3.5.151) D. MISSION: Iran: Enabling policymakers in preventing Iran from achieving its regional
dominance objectives and pursuing policies that impact US. global interests. Focus Areas: Provide
LLS. decision makers with a holistic SIGHT perspective of regional trends and developments. assessing
and-'or predicting strategic direction. plans, intentions and capabilities that impact US. interests. Assess
Iran's foreign policy trends and leadership intentions that impact US. interests or degrade US. inﬂuence.
Provide wanting of [ran's capahilit}r to produce a nuclear weapon or its plans to use terrorist surrogates to
attack Israel or U. S. forces and interests. Assess the regime's progress in initiatives that enhance its pursuit
of regional power objectives in the political. economic. energy. and religious or ideological arenas.
Provide indicators of regime stability and-’or susceptibility to democratic reform initiatives Accepted
Risks: Efforts to ascertain the scope of trans narcotics-organized crime elements and economic
stabilityiinllucnce.

{Sal-“51) E. MISSION: Russia: Assuring diplomatic and strategic advantage and avoiding critical
surprise. Focus Areas: Provide 1:5. policy and decision makers with a holistic SIGINT perspective of
developments and trends in Russia. assessing andl'or predicting strategic direction. plans. intentions, and
capabilities that impact U S. interests Such analysis must consider Russia's strategic foreign policy and
economic inteations and actions as the}.r pertain to US. interests and inﬂuence in the region and globally;
the strength of Russia's economy and its impact on Russian power proiection capability and strategic
positioning; Russia's efforts to regain military strength and stimulate economic growth through the
development and sale of advanced technology and nrcaponrv; and the role of WMD, organized crime and
counterintelligencc in enabling Russian strategic initiatives. Accepted Risks: Certain domestic issues
such as demographics, regional politics. development of civil society in the counhjr. and monitoring of
low-level military training activities. Also, issues that transcend national boundaries such as Russiais
plans. intentions and capabilities regarding influence on the former Soviet space.

(SHED F. MISSION: 1it"anmtueln: Enabling policymakers in preventing Venezuela from achieving its
regional leadership objectives and pursuing policies that negatively impact [5.5. global interests.
Focus Areas: Provide [1.3. decision makers with a holistic SlGlNT perspective of regional trends and
developments. assessing and-lot predicting strategic direction. plans, intentions and capabilities that impact
U .S. interests. Assess 1v‘clitoralela's foreign policy trends and leadership intentions that impact US
interests or degrade U S. inﬂuence Assess Chavez‘ progress in his initiatives to pursue regional power
ohiectives in the political. economic. energy. and ideological arenas. Provide indicators of regime
stability. particularly in Ihe energy sector. Assess the depth and hreatith of ‘i’eneaiiela‘s relations with
countries of strategic concern to the L'mtcd States. particularly lran. Cuba. China. and Russia. Accepted
Risks: Efforts to ascertain the scope. of Venezuela's narcoticsrorganized crime elements and economic

st ahi] mom i] uence.

 

SECRET.I"."COMINT.-"r'REL TD USA- Alibi. CAN. GBR.".-"2039l 1'23

