 

SECRET//COMINT//ORCON,NOFO RN//X.l

0065 not reveal the substantive content eta communication] The electronic communications
metadata the NSA proposes to analyze-dialing, routing, addressing or signaling information—is
identical. in all material respects to the information deemed not to implicate the Fourth
Amendment in these lines of cases. (S//Sl)

Thus, when interpreting the Fourth Amendment, the courts have drawn a consistent
distinction between the substantive content of the communications (found to be protected in
Katz) and the non-content information (found to be unprotected in Smith, Miller and a number of
lower court cases). The communications metadata implicated by the proposed Supplemental
Procedures is limited to dialing, routing, addressing, or signaling information and is deﬁned
speciﬁcally to exclude any information that concerns the substance, purport or meaning of the
communication. Thus it falls clearly within the second, unprotected category of information.

We conclude, therefore, that there is no reasonable expectation of privacy in this metadata and
that the communications metadata analysis proposed by NSA does not implicate the Fourth
Amendment. (S//Sl)

F ISA’S Electronic Surveillance Provisions (U)
To fall Within FlSA’s coverage of “electronic surveillance,” an action must satisfy one of

the four deﬁnitions of that term. None of these deﬁnitions cover the communications metadata
analysis at issue here.8 (S)

 

7 See leygeson v. US. Bancorp, WL 2066746 (D. Or. 2004) (noting the distinction
between the website addresses at issue there, in which an employee had no reasonable
expectation of privacy, and the contents of websites visited or e~mails sent). See also US. v.
Hambrz'ck, 225 F.3d 656 (4th Cir. 2000) (unpublished opinion) (holding that, although in certain
circumstances a person may have a privacy interest in “content information"; such as the
substance of an e-mail, there is no privacy interest in information provided to the ISP for
purposes of establishing the account, which, according to the court, is non—content information);
US. v. Olzrzesmge, 60 MJ. 946 (NM. Ct. Crim. App. 2005) (holding that there is no reasonable ,
expectation of privacy regarding information provided to an ISP). (S//Sl)

8 As noted above, some of the metadata the NSA would analyze has been acquired
pursuant to F ISA and thus is subject to the minimization procedures applicable to that collection.
The standard NSA PISA minimization procedures contain no restrictions that would prohibit the
metadata analysis described herein. The NSA will continue to comply with these procedures,
including with any restrictions on the dissemination of information. In addition, to the extent
that any orders authorizing, under PISA, the collection of metadata impose minimization
procedures that would restrict the metadata analysis in the manner proposed here by NSA, the
NSA must continue to abide by the conditions in those orders. (S//Sl)

SECRET//COMINT//ORCON,NOFORN//Xl

.. 6‘—

