TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY

behaviors ofthe targeted Thuraya handsets and identifying other handsets with similar patterns. The
targeted handsets were observed traveling between known- government and military
installations; therefore, handsets with similar travel behaviors were inferred to be- government
forces.

(TS//S|/REL TO USA, FVEY) The first step of PACT is to identify a set of waypoints for each target handset.
Waypoints are generated from sequences of events that cluster together in space and time. The second
step is to identify which pairs of handsets contain similar waypoint clusters. Pairs are scored based on
the number of waypoint clusters that match. This analytic also considers the total possible number of
waypoint clusters for each selector, so that the total number of communication events per selector is
taken into consideration. This process is intended to reduce the possibility of producing results that
include incidental co—travel. The third step in this analytic identifies persistent patterns by examining the

time periods over which co—Iocation occurs for each co—travel candidate pair.

 

 

Status and Summary

Status Source Data Caveats

Tested on VOICESAIL data from — Thuraya data from CU LTWEAVE — Analytic designed for Thuraya
CULTWEAVE. Patterns stored in (”500 M waypoints in or other point data

QFD. CULTWEAVE)

In process of transitioning PACT

to NSA/SZ.

Future Work

Future work could involve applying this analytic to other types of QFD datasets such as Inmarsat and
GSM data. The team is also interested in building on this analytic to enable discovery of asynchronous
co—traveling relationships.

R6 SORTINGLEAD Co-Traveler Analytic
—

Background
(S//RELTO USA, FVEY) R6 has been partnering with Chalkfun to upgrade the Chalkfun co—traveler
analytic to a cloud—based analytic that will run on Cloud 14 (to eventually be migrated to MDR—Z).

(TS//S|/REL TO USA, FVEY) The R6 co—traveler analytic accepts a selector and timeframe as input, and
then derives an itinerary for the selector that includes the CELL IDs and/or VLRs (depending on what is
available). The itinerary is based on a series of waypoints generated from the location information that
is available in FASCIA—PCS. Then, the analytic searches for other selectors that were ”near” these
waypoints in space and time. Time windows are configurable and can be adjusted by the user. Each
candidate is scored and then prioritized based on the scores.

(TS//S|/REL TO USA, FVEY) The R6 co—traveler analytic operates on Sortinglead Event Summaries and a
GEO Index. The Sortinglead Event Summaries provide rapid access to FASCIA PCS events by summarizing

TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY
10

