hlame of Analytic
[onTc]
ﬂppnrluniljr
Volume Analytic

T'CI'P SECRETHCDMINTHHEL TU USA, FUE‘r'

Summary

considering the possibility of
their travel paths Intersecting.
Computes possible travel
routes for each entity
between specified events;
considering terrain; land
cover, and road network data.

Source Data

Architecture

Status
ported to NSAHet.

Eaveats

locations and 15 minute time
Intervals.

— (So-travel capability would
require analyst to deﬁne a
series of meetings at specified
locations.

 

 

 

 

The analytic computes event - Sortinglead Cloud—based Initial development — This cloud analytic is
sequences of LAT; LUNG, and summaries of completed. oriented to work on T to 3i]
time for each. tasked selector. FASCIA data on In testing phaseI days worth of regional
These are called "trac its”. Each ISM-PLACE and not yet operational collection.
selector’ s tracks are pairwise— EM-
- compared to the others and a - RT—RG regional — Analytic only considers
[:mele measure of similarity in time 55M collection tasited selectors as seeds.
Analytic and space Is computed. - - Analytic does not consider
The analytic works crossv targets that do not travel
network by computing target outside a 20 to 5:! km radius.
"closeness" based on the '3ch — Traci: dataset must be
Lathong EEG information and repopulated for each data
time- update
- The Fa st Follower {FF} - Sma rtp hone Cloudvbased The MES-E analytics - Analytic designed for precise
analytic considers non-SIEiMT data from Implemented has been tested on geolocation data [ego from
reference paths for station ELEPRINTS in Java and real ELKPHINTS smartpho nes]
personnel based on detailed - Reference- ported to data. but results - MES: analytic would require
knowledge of the entity's path data [FFJ Mapfleduce have not been the analyst to deﬁne a series

-.-;.,-

T rav eler A nulyti [5

 

location. Candidate followers
are determined by identifying
other individuals whose path
matches the reference path in
space and time-

—The MeetﬁﬁreetSpatial
Chaining {Pvt-EEC} analytic

 

- List Elf
selectors
[MGSCJI

 

 

validatﬁd by
operational
analysts-

The FF analytic has
been tested on

ma de-up data.

 

Elf meetings

 

TIDF' SECREI'HCDMINTHREL TD USA, FUE‘t'

2i]

 

