TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY
Introduction

(S//REL TO USA, FVEY) This short—term study overviews and documents key elements of the co—traveler
analytics both under development and operational at NSA. Each section includes a brief description of
the analytic, its status, source data, and caveats.

(S//REL TO USA, FVEY) While each analytic was designed to operate on a particular type of data or a
particular data format, many can likely be scaled to operate on other data sources. For instance,
analytics designed for DNR GCID or VLR data might also apply to DNI Geolocation data.

(SI/REL TO USA, FVEY) The process of documenting these analytics raised a series of important issues
that not only distinguish the analytics from each other, but more importantly, shape the landscape
that we must consider in moving forward to meet the analytic needs at NSA. Some ofthese issues are
discussed in the next section.

Issues and Questions

Should a co-travel analytic consider where a GCID or VLR is physically located?

0 Many GSM analytics use GCID information to identify co—travelers. If two selectors are seen
at the same GCID around the same time, they are considered co—travel candidates. The
analytic does not need to know where the GCID is physically located. However, if the
individuals are using different network providers (e.g., T—Mobile and Verizon), they may be
physically standing next to each other as their mobiles register with different cell towers.
Co—travel analytics that do not consider the physical geo—locations of the towers will not
discover individuals that are co—traveling on different networks.

0 Analytics that make use of point data (e.g., Thuraya) necessarily need to consider
geolocational data in order to determine distance from one point to another.

Should incidental co-travelers be considered?

0 There is a difference between incidental co—travel due to collective movement (individuals
with similar travel behaviors but no other similarities) and functional group—based co—travel
among individuals with behaviorally relevant relationships. CTCOP makes this definition
explicit, but warns that we might not want to exclude seemingly incidental co—travelers
simply because we are unaware oftheir relationship.

0 Other factors, such as contact chains and target COMSEC behaviors (frequent power—down,
handset swapping, SMS behavior), might assist in determining whether co—travelers are
associated through their travel behaviors alone or through behaviorally relevant
relationships.

TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY

