TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY

o The analyst will be able to filter in or out potential co—travelers with specified prefixes (for
instance, return only- mobiles, remove all- mobiles, them, or include only mobiles
that are from the same country as the target).

 

Status and Summary

Status Source Data Caveats

— Operational,- Available at — All FASCIA data containing VLR — Current version is not cloud—
analysts desktops and GCID information based and can have long

— Cloud version could be processing times, however
available as early as September cloud—based solution is

2012. imminent.

— Analytic will only return co—
travelers on the same provider
network

 

DSD Co-Travel Analytic
—

Background

(S//S|/REL TO USA, FVEY) The DSD Co—Travel analytic predicts target locations and co—travelers by
calculating time—based travel trajectories. Probable travel routes are calculated using observed locations
and determining the most likely paths and travel times similar to that used in turn—by—turn navigation
systems. These target travel paths are represented as a series of LAT/LONG waypoints or line segments
along the probable travel routes, such as roads. The travel paths are divided into segments (e.g. 20 to
50km along the road). The analytic predicts the approximate time that the target would theoretically
arrive at each segment waypoint based on projected travel times between known locations. Then,
within the travel window, the analytic discovers candidate co—travellers that intersect locations along
the buffered travel path. The next step in the analytic is performed using interactive Renoir analysis of a
two mode graph representing the route segments and selectors observed on these route segments
within the time windows. Once the data is clean and candidate co—travellers are identified detailed
analysis can be done in Renoir or other tools such as GeoTime incorporating other supporting data such
as communications events and content.

(S//S|/REL TO USA, FVEY) The analytic currently runs on a Netezza—based architecture, called Hectic
Snare, that rapidly executes MySQL—based QFDs. This architecture enables interactive exploratory
analysis and rapid pattern matching. The analytic is distributable and could be implemented in
Hadoop/MapReduce or Accumulo.

(S//S|/REL TO USA, FVEY) This analytic was tested using an_ terrorist case study. The case
study used approximately 80,000 base stations locations and 16 billion mobiles location records for
CDRs (Call detail records) and infrastructure collect from DRT and Juggernaut systems. This case study
showed that more candidate co—travellers were discovered by analyzing the travel paths than by
considering common meeting locations alone.

TOP SECRET//COM|NT//REL TO USA, FVEY

