LONG HAUL - Wikilnfo

above for more information.

(Ul/FOUO) Troubleshooting Resources

I (U) LONGHAUL_Take_Home_Support_SOP . - Contains troubleshooting instructions
LONGHAUL Tier 2 support staff can take home.

I U Troubleshootin Hel for Tier 2 Personnel —
- Page contains links to support pages for the various

LONGHAUL components and possible solutions to previously seen issues.
- (iii Ueetoi Support Links _ - A directory
of useful support links. Contains troubleshooting instructions LONGHAUL Tier 2 support
staff can take home.
I (U) Switching Operations
Page contains the procedures to take when switching operations to alternate site

I U LONGHAUL After Hours Beachhead
) - Location of after hours support
I (U) Creating a CES Help Ticket - Process

for creating a CES help ticket for LONGHAUL issues.

- (tit Reporting rrooeooree _t - Process

for reporting on Tier 2 issues.

  
 
 

(Ul/FOUO) Outage Process

I (U) For unexpected/emergency outages.-

I Send messa e to LH customers see outa e email list
). Be sure to include how the
sys em was a ec e an an es lma e o ow ongi w1 take to restore the system.

I If system remains unavailable 1 hour after troubleshooting began, switch operations to

the alternate site (see switching operations
).

I If system continues to be unavailable after 90 minutes, inform T532 management. Be
sure to include how the system was affected and an estimate of how long it will take to
restore the system.

I If system continues to be unavailable after 2 hours, inform T53 management. Be sure to
include how the system was affected and an estimate of how long it will take to restore
the system.

I (U) For scheduled outaies, iollow the normal outaie procedure —

(Ul/FOUO) Contacting the GECC

- (UIIFOUO) — The GECC director

I (Ul/FOUO) _- The Turbulence desk where LONGHAUL support personnel are
located.

I (Ul/FOUO) T3332 Infrastructure Operations —

(for reboots of system after-hours)

(U) Tier 3 Support

(U/IFOUO) Tier 3 support is provided by Development Support (LONGHAUL team).
Development Support resolves issues escalated from Tier 2 related to the internal workings of the
software (i.e., requires "cracking open the code") or COTS/G OTS integration. These are break/ﬁx
activities, which are outside of typical development, and implementation activities (such as
resource planning, project management, architecture, s/w development, initial implementation
[integration/testing, etc.). Tier 3 support consists of:

10 of 15

