LONG HAUL - Wikilnfo

(Ul/FOUO) LONGHAUL Overview
(U) General

(U) DataFlow and CONOP

(TS/ISIIIREL) The LONGHAUL system is composed of several components as shown in this
End-to-End View. LONGHAUL receives cryptanalytic information (CA Data) from the ﬁeld systems
and passes information back to ﬁeld systems using its Front End. The Front End validates the
sender/receiver using CASPORT services. LONGHAUL contains Attack Orchestration
components (one orchestrator for each distinct type of attack), and Attack Service components.
Attack orchestration ﬁgures out what cryptanalytic processing should be applied for each piece of
CA Data, and then initiates, and as needed manages, that processing. Attack service performs the
cryptanalytic attack. Once the processing is complete, the result is returned to the attack
orchestration component, information about the processing is "saved" for Management and
Analysis, and then as appropriate the result is returned to the "requesting" CA Server.
LONGHAUL accesses CES Databases for certain information needed for attack orchestration and
attack services. LONGHAUL also provides an interface for CES Analysts that need access to
information pertaining to the LONGHAUL processed data. LONGHAUL maintains its own internal
databases for the management and control of its processing activities.

‘mr w a) r nu nu \\ il_£_1'i'h‘_<‘h‘u an )njnlml LONGHAUL Architecture I'ub 28.2012

 

 

 

 

 

MAI.
ORDER

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

,v CA Rmurcui

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Thus anagram has been Simpliﬁed fut readability Bulh
Silas are doomed and all connecluons men are shown
going In one sile really go In bulh. .mumm RH nu d u \| \\ mm v1 rm...»

LONGHAUL End-to-End Overview

(TS/ISIIIREL) LONGHAUL (in Purge_Surge parlance) is a Collection Store, that is a "system that
processes and/or retains collected SIGINT data items, and that permits access to those
performing collection functions and limits access of those performing intelligence analysis".
LONGHAUL maintains internal databases that contain Cryptanalytic "technical data", and
LONGHAUL also exchanges Cryptanalytic "technical datall with other CES databases and with
CES HPC resources that perform cryptanalytic attacks. This "technical datall includes recovered

20f15

