LONG HAUL - Wikilnfo

(Operations and Mission) and Mission Analysis which can be found here: Web Applications List

(—)
(U) Security and Policy

(U/IFOUO) SPAM is our Security, Policy, and Adjudication Module which will be used to apply
rules for sanitizing, ﬁltering, and determining if a response should be sent to a particular client.

(U) Common

(Sl/SI/IREL) All child projects share LONGHAUL COMMON components or services. This is not
shown as a separate block on the diagram as all the components use COMMON.

(U) Interfaces (ICD)

(U) All Interfaces are described on the ICD wiki page. These include both the external interfaces
(how a CA Server communicates with LONGHAUL) as well as the interfaces LONGHAUL uses
with other CES systems.

(U) Design
(U) Architecture

(U/IFOUO) Software and Hardware architecture discussions are available on the LONGHAUL
Architecture page.

(U) High Availability

(Sl/SI/IREL) LONGHAUL is a high availability system that makes use of Continuity of Operations
(COOP) to meet availability requirements. The system is designed from both hardware and
software perspectives to provide high availability, ensuring that key recovery services are always
available. The two site deployment with equal processing capacity will meet the COOP
requirement for the system. Each system is designed with redundant hardware and processes so
that the system can survive any single component (hardware or software) failure. During normal
operation, both systems will be operational and share the processing load. In the event of a single
site failure, the second site will, within seconds, assume total processing responsibility, but at
reduced capacity. The requestor of CA Services (the ﬁeld deployed CA Server) never knows (or
needs to know) which hardware is used to process its requests. CA Servers send data to
LONGHAUL and receive responses from LONGHAUL using the AMF. LONGHAUL and the AMP
manage the physical routing and failover behavior of the system.

(Ul/FOUO) For more detailed information, see Availability Analysis.
(U) AMF/ITx JMS Messaging

(Ul/FOUO) The use of a high capacity, low latency JMS messaging fabric is critical to the success
of the LONGHAUL mission. LONGHAUL has worked closely with the Application Messaging
Framework (AMF) team to design a fabric to support the LONGHAUL requirements.

(U) See AMF I LONGHAUL Teaming for more detailed information.

(U/IFOUO) The collection site clients (CA Servers) will publish messages into the fabric with no
knowledge of where the processing actually occurs. The fabric should support both active/active
and active/passive processing modes. In active/active mode multiple sites would consume the
same message, and manage the client response strategy. In active/passive, one site would
consume a message, but in a failure mode, an alternate site would seamlessly pick up message

40f15

