(U) Project Description

(SIISUIREL TO USA. FVEY) The Special Source Operations (SSO) Project provides management oversight
and logistical support to the Special Source Access programs. These resources are used to provide cross-
program management services to drive efficiencies within the Special Source Access Expenditure Center (EC).
Responsibilities include general management. traﬂlg. and travel. This Project supports the RAMPART-l
program in-and the RAMPART-X program in_. It also supports the MYSTIC Program Office.
which leverages partner-enabled accesses against Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) and other
cellular and Public Switched Telephone Networks (PSTNs). It supports target technology development through
comprehensive and deﬁnitive description of foreign targets' current and future use of telecommunications and
computer systems. Additionally. this Project sustains efforts to add. enhance. and support Next-Generation
Wireless (NGW) capabilities across Special Source Accesses. and efforts to address critical target capability gaps.
This Project contains the Special Source Staff Operations Sub-Project.

 

(U) Base resources in this project are used to:

- (UIIFOUO) Provide travel. training. equipment and general supplies for the Special Source Access front
office.

- (TSIISUIREL TO USA. FVEY) Provides initial and emerging access to high-priority SlGlNT targets against
new requirements. provide management and technical engineering services to analyze and maintain data
flow. provide program metrics. and manage allocation of tasks and schedules for SSO collection sources.

- (SIISIHREL TO USA. FVEY) Provide contracted services for NGW core network exploitation capabilities
to deploy core network exploitation capabilities to collection sites in_ Caribbean. Kenya. the
Philippines. and Mexico.

- (CIIREL TO USA. FVEY) Purchase classiﬁed SlGlNT processing equipment. associated upgrades. and
life-cycle support.

- (TSIISUINF) Sustain MYSTIC capabilities to provide comprehensive metadata access and content against

targeted communications in Kenya. Caribbean. Mexico. and-thﬂhilippinesiEnid-eI new
PSTN collection capability in on their international links to _ and

j_' Capabilities will offer near-real time. complete access to the additional target country's GSM
network(s). and provide for retrospective tasking and near-real-time accessldelivery of metadata as required.
Activities previously provided by Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) resources are now requested
in the base submission.

