TOP 5 E C R E T/HVCCO

l. (S) PREAMBLE: In 1968 President Johnson and Prime Minister
Eshkol agreed that an intelligence exchange would take place
between the United States and Israel. This understanding
resulted in an intelligence exchange arrangement between the U.S-
Defense Intelligence Agency {DIA), Department of Defense (DOD)
and.the Directorate of Military Intelligence (DMI). Israel
Defense Forces (IDF), known as the CYR Agreement. In 1988 the
CYR Agreement was adjusted. broadened, reinforced, and extended
and the new Agreement was named “ICE CASTLE". In 1996, the
agreement was updated and renamed “STONE RUBY.“

Over the years the scope of the intelligence exchange developed
both in substance and in depth, contributing significantly to the
national security of the U.S. and Israel.

This revised Agreement gives expression to the developments in
the intelligence exchange relationship that have occurred since
its inception, and provides the means and procedures for the
continuation and enhancement of that exchange for the mutual
benefit of both countries.

All exchanges of military intelligence whether by meeting,
conference, ad hoc gatherings, or via any communications medium
between any DoD organization and any IDF organization, shall be
conducted under the auspices of this Agreement and shall be
subject to the policies and procedures contained herein-
Exchanges between DOD and IDF organizations involving only
signals intelligence have been upgraded to the TOP SECRET level.
All other intelligence exchanged will be at the SECRET level and
below- DIA and the DMI, as the parties to this Agreement,
represent DOD and the IDF, respectively, in carrying out its
provisions.

This Agreement supersedes the STONE RUBY Memorandum of Agreement
dated 19 August 1995.

2. (S) PURPOSE: In the spirit of defense cooperation between
the governments of Israel and the United States of America,
noting mutually beneficial intelligence exchange arrangements
that have taken place within that cooperation, and recognizing
the benefits from an exchange of intelligence in areas of mutual
interest, the parties to the Agreement enter into the following
Memorandum of Agreement on the exchange of intelligence.

TOP S E C R E T/HVCCO
Releasable U.S. and ISRAEL

6)

