 

..
\‘1
~ .0

 

TOP 3 E C R E T/HVCCO

ANNEX 5
ATTACHE -TO -ANALYST DI SCUS S IONS

1. (S) SCOPE: The parties to this Agreement rec0gni2e crises
may occur at any time or occasions will arise requiring the
sharing of intelligence information on a face—to—face basis
within the disclosure policies of each party. The objective of
this Annex is to clarify the procedures to be used by the parties
to the Agreement in conducting these discussions. Discussions
will be limited to the scope defined at Annex 1.

2 . (S) PROCEDURES:

a. This exchange will-be restricted to crisis and current
information, recognized as not fully evaluated intelligence
limited to the scope defined at Annex 1. Requests for
comprehensive information will be in the written form stipulated
in Annex 4 of this Agreement.

b. All routine, periodic requests, either written or
telephonic, for meetings by the Israeli Defense Attaches in
Washington with DIA Defense Intelligence Officer for Middle East
and South Asia or the Directorate for Intelligence, J—2 will he
made/addressed to the BIA Foreign Liaison Office, which will
arrange the meetings. All routine, periodic requests, either
written or telephonic, for meetings by the Israeli Defense
Attaches in Washington with DIA analysts in the DIA Directorate
for Intelligence Production will be made/addressed to the
International Programs and Mission Support Division, DI. The
defense attaches will provide an agenda in advance but no later
than 18 hours before the proposed discussions, of items for
discussion. DIA is not obliged to accept additions or changes to
proposed agenda items less than 18 hours before the discussions.

Urgent requests outside normal working hours will be made
through the Duty Director. National Military Joint Intelligence
Center (NMJIC), directly. Requests for discussions or contacts
falling outside this Annex shall be referred to the Foreign
Liaison Office. Requests for visits which include any parties in
addition the Israeli Defense Attaches will be submi:ted in
writing to the Foreign Liaison Office.

c. All requests for meetings, either written or telephonic,

TOP E E C R E T/HVCCO
Releasable U.S. and ISRAEL

15

