TOP S E C R E T/HVCCO

Security of Military Information Agreement between Israel and the
United States of America, dated 10 December 1982, as amended, and
including the Industrial Security Annex thereto, of 3 March 1983
and shall be in conformance with the procedures contained in
Annex 6 to this Agreement.

c. In addition, all classified information or material
involving signals intelligence provided or generated pursuant to
this Agreement shall be stored, handled, transmitted, and
safeguarded in accordance with the "Guidelines for SIGINT
COOperation" between the United States National Security Agency
and the Israeli SIGINT National Unit, dated 1989, as amended
November 1992.

7. (C) INTERPRETATION: Any disagreement regarding the
interpretation or application of this Agreement will be resolved
by consultation between the parties and will not be referred to
an international tribunal or third party for settlement.

8. (C) DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT: This Agreement will expire 20
years from the date it comes into force and it may be extended
for additional periods upon mutual Agreement of the parties. The
parties will review the terms of the Agreement every 5 years.

9. (C) FISCAL OBLIGATIONS: Each party will assume all costs it
incurs in carrying out this Agreement, including expenses for
transportation, lodging, and meals of its participants at the
conferences and special meetings provided for in annexes to this
Agreement. Other expenses related to hosting conferences and
special meetings, provided for in annexes to this Agreement, will
be borne by the hosting party. The obligations of each party are
subject to the availability of funds. Each party will notify the
other immediately if funds available to it are not sufficient to
carry out all the provisions of the Agreement.

10. (C) AMENDMENTS: The Agreement may be amended at any time
upon the mutual Agreement of both parties. In accordance with
applicable laws, procedures, and regulations governing each party
additional annexes may be added, with the consent of both
parties, to cover areas of cooperation that may evolve in the
future. Requests for amendments to this Agreement will be

TOP S E C R E T/HVCCO
Releasable 0.8. and ISRAEL

