TOP 5 E C R E T/HVCCO

ANNEX 2
MILITARY EXCHANGE CONFERENCES AND MEETINGS

1. (S) SCOPE: within the scope of the disclosure policies of
their respective governments, the parties to the Agreement will
hold periodic military intelligence exchange conferences and
meetings on the subject areas contained in Annex 1.

2. (S) OBJECTIVE: The objective will be to enhance the
knowledge and understanding of the analysts of both parties.
within the scope of the Agreement as defined in Annex 1,
concerning threats and potential threats to the mutual security
interests of Israel and the United States.

3. (S) PROCEDURES FOR CONFERENCES:

a. Prior to the conference. each party will provide the
other a list of proposed topics for discussion. If both parties
agree to discuss a topic. each will ensure analysts having
substantive expertise in the topics will be members of the
delegation to the conference.

b- The site of the conference will alternate between Israel
and the United States. The dates of the conference will be
determined by Agreement between the parties.

c. DIA will invite appropriate U.S. Unified Command J-2s and
Service Intelligence Chiefs to participate in the conference and
may also offer other DoD and U.S. government intelligence
community components the opportunity to participate. The DMT,
likewise and at its discretion, may offer an invitation to other
Israeli government intelligence agencies and components. The
defense attaches/liaison officers-of both governments may also
attend-

d. Communications concerning the conference on the U.S. side
will be forwarded through the U.S. Defense Attache'Office/Defense
Intelligence Officer in Tel Aviv to the DMI. Israeli responses
may be provided to the U.S. Defense Attache Office/Defense
Intelligence Officer in Tel Aviv or may be passed to the Israeli
Defense Attache Office in Washington, D.C. for transmittal to
DIA. Israeli communications on the conferences will be forwarded

TOP 5 E C R E T/HVCCO
Releasable U.S. and ISRAEL

