'A

iii}

 

TOP S E C R E T/HVCCO

examination unless it is previously agreed in writing to do
otherwise. The providing state will continue to be the owner of
the materiel and the exchange will be for technical examination
only.

e. The condition of the foreign materiel provided by one
party to the other party for exploitation on a nonreimbursable
basis. from the time of departure to the time of return by the
receiving party will be governed by the principle that items are
to be returned in the same condition, with allowance for fair
wear and tear, unless destructive tests are jointly decided.
Foreign materiel may be examined for an initial period of no more
than one year, after which it will be returned to the sending
party unless an extended period has been agreed to between the
parties. -

f. Insofar as national laWS and regulations permit, and in
any event to the extent provided by applicable international
Agreements, the parties will endeavor to ensure that identifiable
taxes, customs, duties, and similar charges are not imposed in
connection with this Agreement. The parties will administer all
taxes, customs, duties, and similar charges in the manner most
favorable to the satisfactory execution of the arrangements

described in this Agreement.

g. The Foreign Materiel Programs Office of DIA's Directorate
for Intelligence Production (DI) will be the Department of
Defense point of contact for foreign materiel transfers under
this Agreement. The head of the DMI External Relations
Department (ERD) will be the point of contact for the Israel
Defense Force. The USDAO Tel Aviv/Defense Intelligence Liaison
Officer and the Israeli Assistant Defense Attache in Washington
will kept informed of such transfers.

3. (5) SPECIAL MEETINGS/PROJECTéi

a. Either party may request a special meeting at any time to
discuss a specific topic that addresses an urgent or critical
aspect of the combined exploitation.

b. Special meetings will be held at a time and place

mutually agreeable to both parties. DIA may invite appropriate
Unified Command J—2s and U.S. Service Intelligence Production

TOP S E C R E T/HVCCO
Releasable U.S. and ISRAEL

12

