TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT
indcctrinated fcr EULLRUN. The varicus types cf security ccvered by BULLRUN
in clude. but are net limited to. TLSiSSL. https (e.g. webmail}. SSH. encrypted
chat; lv’F’Ns and encrypted ‘v'DIP. The speciﬁc instances cf these technclcgies
that can be explcited will be published in a separate Annexe (available tc
BULLRUN indcctrinated staff}.

T. In additicn tc the specific technclcgies that GCHQ cr its Sigint partners are able
to explcit; the methcds used tc achieve the explcitaticn must alsc be prctected.
These include suppcrt frcm cther crganisaticns. bcth internal and external tc
GCHQ. Access tc BULLRUN dces NUT imply any "need—tc—kncw" the details cf
scurces and methcds used tc achieve explcitaticn and. in general. there will be
NO "need—tc—kncw”. Requests fcr access to infcrmaticn cn scurces and methcds
shculd be sent tc UPC—SEC; if ccnsidered apprcpriate. this access may require
clearance fcr certain ECls.

B. BULLRUN material. data and details must be prctected with the use cf the
EULLRUN Gel and be marked with the label "BULLRUN." in additicn tc the
required privacy marking and ether descriptcrs. Use cf the BULLRUN marking
is restricted to GCHQ and its Sigint.‘ 2"" Parties.

Access and Security

9. Requests for access tc the |Ccl must be spcnscred by a GCB cr abcve and must
be acccmpanied by a business case cutlining the "need—tc—kncw”. Access fcr
ccntractcrs will be limited and will require a strcng business case; such requests
shculd be discussed with the |Ccl Authcrity’s delegates befcre submissicn.
Requests for access are to be sent by email tc PTDAccesses.

1D. Kncwledge cf BULLRUN infcrmaticn and access tc the BULLRUN |Ccl will cnly
be granted to indcctrinated individuals.

11. It is the respcnsibility cf spcnscrs (cr their successcrs} tc nctity UPC—SEC (via
PTDAccesses} when an individual nc lcnger require access to EULLRUN.

Handling Precedures

12. IIZaners cf BULLRUN materials are respcnsible fcr ccrrectly marking the
infcrmaticn and fcr ensuring that it is handled acccrding tc guidelines fcr
prctecting classified cr CDI infcrmaticn.

13. Repcrts derived frcm BULLRUN material shall nct reveal (cr imply} thatthe
scurce data was decrypted. The netwcrk ccmmunicaticn technclcgy that carried
the ccmmunicaticn shculd nct be revealed.

14. Further disseminatjcn. cther than in prcduct repcrts. cf any data cr infcrmaticn

derived frcm BULLRUN data must be thcrcughly justified and receive pricr
apprcval frcm UPC—SEC.

:.I :. rillxu-IIEE-r-Jii' I. .I:::.I:.::I :.|.:::I| -:';';I. :.- :. ;.:;.:: I'..':._-H.;-, _ I ' J' i' -='-': :-.: :: .. - ;_; . _. : .
TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT

