SECRETHCOMINTl/NDFOW/IZM10108

Section 3 — Acquisition and Processing — General (U)
(a) Acquisition (U)

The acquisition of information by targeting non~United States persons reasonably believed to
be located outside the United States pursuant to section 702 of the Act will be effected in
accordance with an authorization made by the Attorney General and Director of National
Intelligence pursuant to subsection 702(a) of the Act and will be conducted in a manner
designed, to the greatest extent reasonably feasible, to minimize the acquisition of
information not relevant to the authorized purpose of the acquisition. (S//Sl)

(b) Monitoring, Recording, and Processing (U)

(1) Personnel will exercise reasonable judgment in determining whether information
acquired must be minimized and will destroy inadvertently acquired communications
of or concerning a United States person at the earliest practicable point in the
processing cycle at which such communication can be identiﬁed either: as clearly not
relevant to the authorized purpose of the acquisition (e.g., the communication does
not contain foreign intelligence information); or, as not containing evidence of a
crime which may be disseminated under these procedures. Such inadvertently
acquired communications of or concerning a United States person may be retained no
longer than five years in any event. The communications that may be retained
include electronic communications acquired because of limitations on NSA’s ability
to ﬁlter communications. (S//Sl)

(2) Communications of or concerning United States persons that may be related to the
authorized purpose of the acquisition may be forwarded to analytic personnel
responsible for producing intelligence information from the collected data. Such
connnunications or information may be retained and disseminated only in accordance
with Sections 4, 5, 6, and 8 of these procedures. (C)

(3) Magnetic tapes or other storage media that contain acquired communications may be
processed. (S)

(4) As a communication is reviewed, NSA analyst(s) will determine Whether it is a
domestic or foreign communication to, from, orrabout a target and is reasonably
believed to contain foreign intelligence information or evidence of a crime. Only
such communications may be processed. All other communications may be retained
or disseminated only in accordance with Sections 5, 6, and 8 of these procedures.
(S/lSI)

(5) Magnetic tapes or other storage media containing communications acquired pursuant
to section 702 may be scanned by computer to identify and select communications for
analysis. Computer selection terms used for scanning, such as telephone numbers,
key words or phrases, or other discriminators, will not include United States person

SECRET/ICOMINTl/NOFORN/l20320108
3

