SECRETl/COMINTl/NOFORNHZOB10108

names or identiﬁers and will be limited to those selection terms reasonably likely to
return information about foreign intelligence targets. (S/lSl)

(6) Further processing, retention and dissemination of foreign communications will be
made in accordance with Sections 4, 6, 7, and 8 as applicable, below. Further
processing, storage and dissemination of inadvertently acquired domestic
communications will be made in accordance with Sections 4, 5, and 8 below. (S//Sl)

(c) Destruction of Raw Data (C)

Communications and other information, including that reduced to graphic or "hard copy"
form such as facsimile, telex, computer data, or equipment emanations, will be reviewed for
retention in accordance with the standards set forth in these procedures. Communications
and other information, in any form, that do not meet such retention standards and that are
known to contain communications of or concerning United States persons will be destroyed
upon, recognition, and may be retained no longer than five years in any event. The
communications that may be retained include electronic communications acquired because of
limitations on NSA's ability to ﬁlter communications. (Sl/Sl)

(d) Change in Target‘s Location or Status (S//Sl)

(1) In the event that NSA determines that a person is reasonably believed to be located
outside the United States and after targeting this person learns that the person is inside
the United. States, or if NSA concludes that a person who at the time of targeting was
believed to be a non-United States person is in fact a United States person, the
acquisition from that person will be terminated without delay. (EV/SI)

(2) Any communications acquired through the targeting of a person who at the time of
targeting was reasonably believed to be located outside the United States but is in fact
located inside the United States at the time such communications were acquired, and
any communications acquired by targeting a person who at the time of targeting was
believed to be a non—United States person but was in fact a United States person, will
be treated as domestic communications under these procedures. (S//SI)

Section 4 — Acquisition and Processing ~ Attorney—Client Communications (C)

As soon as it becomes apparent that a communication is between a person who is known to
be under criminal indictment in the United States and an attorney who represents that
individual in the matter under indictment (or someone acting on behalf of the attoniey),
monitoring of that communication will cease and the connnunication will be identiﬁed as an
attomey-client communication in a log maintained for that purpose. The relevant portion of
the communication containing that conversation will be segregated and the National Security
Division of the Department of Justice will be notiﬁed so that apprdpriate procedures may be
established to protect such communications from review or use in any criminal prosecution,
while preserving foreign intelligence information contained therein. Additionally, all
proposed disseminations of information constituting United States person attomey—client

SECREW/COMMT//NOFORN//20320108
4

