 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CNE End Point Requirements
CATEGORY REG TYPE PRIORITY
0 Experimi O Capability 0 Priority Requirements are divided into a number of CATEGORIES
I I I . . . Identifying the amount of INNOVATION required to satisfy the
O Refinemer 0 Priority This spreadsheet contains the collated CNE user reqwrements re uirement
O Convergem captured by as the Endpoint initiative lead. q
0 BUQ F” 0 Query 0 Priority . . . . Requirements are labelled by TYPE - referring to the primary issue
0 ALL To cut down the amount of information VISIbIe select the associated with the re uirement
O Taskir O ALL material you want to see via the Radio Buttons and then q
0 Viewe press (50 ' Requirements are PRIORITISED - Priority 1 being the highest
(essential) and Priority 3 the lowest (nice to have)
0 ALL
REQUIREMENTS PLANNED DEVELOPMENT WORK
Category Type Priority Number Description Individual Tasks — with RAG status
Refine Capability 1 Cap.01 Request document] file properties and task on the basis of STARGATE (Manual authorisation tool)
the same (author/etc)
Experiment Capability 1 Cap.02 Detect internal network activity (volumes and movement of
specific data types)
Experiment Capability 1 Cap.03 Low latency presence data for use in tip-off collection
Experiment Capability 1 Cap.04 Remote indexing ROCK OPERA remote indexing
Experiment Capability 1 Cap.05 Use API type functions of operating systems like their
indexing
Experiment Capability 2 Cap.06 characterisation of unallocated or deleted space - potentially STARGATE (Daredevil remote forensics plugin)
a source of intelligence on internet-facing target machines uincey pluqin
Experiment Capability 2 Cap.07 Destination IP address from messenger client packet capture
Experiment Capability 2 Cap.08 PCS - capability against mobile devices Research in CNE and ICTR
Experiment Capability 2 Cap.09 ability to list programs and applications commonly used on
the machine (pulled from Registry and program files?) - and
to monitor frequency of use
Experiment Capability 2 Cap.10 Followlmonitor movement of files I movement of users (key STARGATE (network summary plugin)
to identifying the valuable parts Of a network) STARGATE (Endpoint data characterisation)
Experiment Capability 2 Cap.11 Rén‘i’MﬁlérﬁiEiﬁﬁ:slU§3‘iiiarvester (with logics applied to
implant on USB to auto-retrieve data).
Refine Capability 2 Cap.12 web browsing content (html, cookies etc)
Experiment Capability 3 Cap.13 Change the registry (eg browser stain)
Experiment Capability 3 Cap.14 Collect the first line of the document text [the first 'n'
characters.

 

 

