TOP SECRET/fCOMINT/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL/l20320108

(UIIFOUO) CLARIFYMIND Wireless iPilot Technical Exchange with
Canadian Representative

(mom) —— __and—of the R224

CLARIFYMIND Wireless Pilot Team met with of Canadian Security
Establishment Canada (CSEC) who is currently a_ssigned to the Canadian Liaison Office at
NSA. The meeting was a follow up to — May 2008 CLARIFYMIND presentation
to the 5 Eyes Information Assurance Re—_—search Conference at NSA _described the new
CSEC building under construction, the need for wireless communica—tions in the facility, and
the CSEC efforts underway to consider various wireless solutions. The R224 team briefed

on the CLARIFYMIND wireless pilot, current research efforts, and planned future
activities-was very interested in considering CLARIFYMIND as a potential pilot
application. He plans to share the CLARIFYMIND potential pilot partner information with
CSEC decision-makers and then schedule a follow—up technical exchange with the R224
Team.

(UHFOUO) POC: — R224, —

 

 

(UIIFOUO) R22 Continues Collaboration with NSA CTOITS via Secure
Tokens Talk

(UI/FOUO) The Information Assurance Engineering Research Office (R22) is continuing a
collaboration initiative with the NSAJCTO Chief Information Security Officer (C180) and
Chief Information Officer (CIO) Staff (TS) through an exchange of ideas Via TS—sponsored
technical talks. R22’s objective is to assist TS with improving the security of critical IT
systems as well as obtaining feedback and information on emerging hard problems to consider
for future research. In addition, the regular exchange with TS helps connect R22 researchers
to a potential new base of customers and partners.

(U/IFOUO)_ the R223 lead researcher for secure tokens discovery, presented on
8 August 2008 at the TS Technical Talk Forum. His discussion centered on the Tokens
Research Roadmap, the current status of development efforts underway through partnerships
with IAD, and current utilization of interim capabilities on CES laptops. TS personnel and
other Agency representatives who deal with tokens/smartcards responded positively and
launched a dialogue on many issues that encompassed operations, policy, technical transfer,
and productization challenges. While there were different implementation issues raised for a
variety of customer sets, the common end vision is an assured identity token in a smartcard
format. The R223 token research program is in line with this vision and all capabilities will
be compatible and can be transferred onto a smartcard format. Both DOD and IC customer
needs are addressed as a part of the R223—led research strategy.

wow we: 22,—
10

TOP SECRET/’lCOMINT/lREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NEH/20320108

