TOP SECRET/fCOMINT/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL/l20320108

'T'1“?"I“?"I”?"I"?"I"?"I‘"T"T"T?'TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT‘

(U) From the NIARL Technical Director’s Desk:

(UIIFOUO) Information Sharing Roadmap Initiative

3“ (U/fFOUO) Recently, I was asked to lead a small team, with
representation from across the Information Assurance Directorate (IAD),
the NSA/CSS Commercial Solutions Center (NCSC), and the Research
Directorate, to deve10p an IAD roadmap for information sharing.
Obviously, this is not the first time an Agency or organization has
deveIOped a roadmap on this t0pic. For example, community roadmaps
were developed by the Program Manager for Information Sharing
Environment (PM—ISE) at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Information
Sharing Environment Implementation Plan) and the Global Information Grid (GIG)
Information Assurance Portfolio (GIAP) management office (System Technology Evolution
Plan (STEP) for the Secure Information Exchange (SIE) thread of the GIG Information
Assurance Architecture). Unlike previous community efforts, this activity is focused on
developing an internal IAD information sharing roadmap.

 

(UI/FOUO) So why is an internal IAD information sharing roadmap needed? While there are
many reasons, the primary reasons are to provide a long term IAD vision for information
sharing that is common across the corporation, to provide a shared context (e.g. a corporate
description of information sharing and the necessary activities to achieve information
sharing), and to provide a tool to synchronize and anticipate individual IAD, NCSC and
Research activities related to information sharing. In a nutshell, this roadmap is intended to be
a starting point for harmonizing all IAD activities related to information sharing over an
extended timeframe (e.g. 5-7 years). Our goal is not to create a roadmap that competes with
existing community roadmaps. Our approach will be to synthesize existing community
roadmaps into an internal roadmap that drives IAD investments in information sharing.
Lastly, our roadmap will be a living document and will be revised as the timeline moves to
the right, or as IAD learns more about information sharing requirements.

(ml/mum —rechmcal Directora—

ii-ii-II-ii-II-iii-iii-iﬁ-IHOill-1H.iii-iiii-ﬂiii-i«ii-94'ﬁf-‘Qf-‘Qf-‘Qf-‘Qf-‘Qfﬁﬁfﬁﬁi

(U) Crypto-Math Corner:

(UI/FOUO) For general information on R21 Cr ' to rat hic IA Research’s capabilities and
current efforts, please visit the R2 web sitel or the R21
homepage at link:

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NEH/20320108

   

