TOP SECRET/fCOMINT/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL/l20320108

(U) Summer Mathematics, R21, and the Director's Summer Program

(U) The Director's Summer Program (DSP) is the agency‘s premier summer program for
mathematics undergraduates. Since its inception in 1990, the mission of the DSP has not been
simply recruitment, (though a small but steady percentage of DSP participants do come back
to work at NSA, often after obtaining an advanced degree), but rather an outreach effort
aimed at attracting the best mathematics students from around the country, educating them
about mathematics at NSA, and thus establishing ties with the future leaders of the outside
mathematics community.

(U/fFOUO) While the DSP is hosted by the Mathematics Research Group, the technical
directors come from across the Agen_cy. In 2008 the technical directors were —
_, _(R21), and —(531223). This year’s 22 participants were
culled from 260 applicants. Over 12 weeks, students worked in small teams with NSA
mathematicians to deve10p real—world solutions to classified, operational problems.

(U/fFOUO) Over the years, R21 personnel have supported the DSP both as project mentors,
who propose a project and guide a small group of students (usually a 12—week, half—time
commitment), and as technical directors of the program, who select and interview the
students, find projects and mentors, and serve as general technical and administrative support
full—time during the summer (usually a 2-year, half-time commitment).

(U/fFOUO) This year, in addition to presenting their results to both the Director and De ut
Director of NSA, the DSP was invited to give classified presentations to ﬂ,

a professional staffer on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) as well as two
members of the SSCI Technical Advisory Group.

(Sf/SI/REL) Projects from DSP 2008 of possible interest to R2 include: RANDOMIZERS, a
study of open source randomizers, TUNDRA, research of a new statistic for codebook
analysis, and CLOUD, implementing graph algorithms in a cloud computing environment.
Short summaries follow.

(Sf/SI/IREL) RANDOMIZERS -- Because of their use in the generation of keying material,
randomizers play a critical role in modern cryptographic systems. The RANDOMIZERS
project focused on two popular commercial software randomizers: Open SSL's randomizer
and fdev/random. The DSP students researched the quality of these randomizers by
measuring entropy and by considering cryptanalytic attacks (e.g., Forward Security). The
students confirmed an outside attack on /dev/random, but they also showed that this attack is
not as strong as the outside paper claimed. They found no obvious weaknesses in Open SSL's
randomizer. Finally, the students examined a mixing component consisting of a shift register
with a contribution from an entropy source (modeled as Bernoulli——p bits). They determined a
theoretical bound on the number of register steps needed to reach full entropy given p and the
'Jolynomial drivling the shift register. This project was supported by—and
of 1735.

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL/l20320108

