TOP SECRET/fCOMINT/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL/l20320108

(UIIFOUO) Key Management lModeling Research

(U/fFOUO) R21 is approaching two significant milestones in Key Management Modeling
(KMM) research. First, the researchers appear to have found a proof and analysis technology
that is robust enough to do meaningful formal analysis of real key management systems.
KMM is now making use of the Cryptographic Protocol Shapes Analyzer (CPSA) developed
under contract to R213. CPSA was designed to analyze cryptographic protocols so KMM is
now expressing key management systems as hi gh—level protocols in order to apply CPSA.
The KMM researchers have been working with Mitre, and changes to CPSA have already
been made to enable it to be applied to KMM more directly.

(Cl/REL) Additionally, KMM is being used for the first time to model a real—world key
management system. The United Kingdom (UK) is designing a new key management
architecture as part of its Secure Management Infrastructure (S MI) effort. The initial UK
architecture is simple enough to make it a good candidate for modeling while still allowing
analysis to be accomplished on a real system. Furthermore, the UK has its own project to
produce a formal Specification of the key management architecture in Z, which will provide
invaluable input to KMM. A draft model is currently under development, and if sufficient
progress is achieved, R21 will be presenting the results at the 5-Eyes Key Management
Strategy Group [KMSG) in Ottawa in October 2008.

(U/IFOUO) P00 —R212«—

lull-iii“.dbl-iCHI-iii!iii-iiii-i«IMO-i«ti-1in}!ﬁfiﬁfﬁﬁf‘ﬁfﬂﬁfﬁﬁfiﬁfiﬁfﬁﬁf
(U) IA Engineering Exchange:

(U/fFOUO) For general information on R22 IA Engineering Research’s capabilities and
current efforts, please visit the R2 web sit— or use the R22
wiki link: —

(U) The Research Journey from Passion to Prototype

(U/fFOUO) As noted in the NIARL Director’s introduction, Research Integration [R223) is
the NIARL Focus Area responsible for taking IA discoveries into the research prototype and
demonstration stage. Along the way, the team explores and addresses critical assurance
challenges facing our current information infrastructure, as well as those emerging against our
future systems.

(U/fFOUO) To explore the goals of Research Integration, let’s follow some distinct research

efforts from their origins toward the integrated prototype and demonstration stage. For this
example, we’ll use a well—understood assurance problem given our current operational

TOP SECRETf/COMINTI/REL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NEH/20320108

