TOP SECRET/fCOMINT/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL/l20320108

(UI/FOUO) So while “passion” for IA discovery is not unique to Research Integration, our
objective is to put these advanced technologies into a form that highlights their potential to
address significant assurance questions. No matter the origin, the potential technology
solutions that emerge from IA research are designed for significant breakthrough. However, a
particular innovation, in and of itself, provides limited benefit unless it can advance the
science, solve a problem, and ultimately reach customers. The aim of the R223 Research
Integration team is to reach those customers and showcase the potential for NIARL research
to become a decisive advantage against network adversaries. Please contact us if you would
like to learn more about our research efforts and see our latest creations.

(U/IFOUO) POC: l—Chief R2294—

(U) R222. iPhotonic Logic Program Review at Sandia National
Laboratories

(UI/FOUO] From 19-21 August 2008,I_and -——)f R22, and-

all of R222. attended an annual
review at Sandia National Laboratories to assess progress and provide direction to Sandia on
two multi—year photonic logic R&D projects aimed at performing all—Optical Boolean logic at
IOOGbps clock cycles or faster.

(UI/FOUO) The first photonic logic technology is based on a Photodiode ElectrO—Absorption
Modulator ‘(PD-EAM). Recent accomplishments include the design and fabrication of an
optical AND gate, prediction via detailed models of >100GHZ switching speeds,
demonstration of a proof of concept multi—element AND gate at MHZ frequencies, and
demonstration of low contrast, >20GHZ optical modulation of a PD—EAM pair. A near-term
challenge is the demonstration of an Optical logic gate Operating at 10+GHZ switching.

(U/fFOUO) The second effort is the Extremely Shallow Quantum Well Symmetric Self
Electro-Optic Effect Device (ESQW-S-SEED, or SEED). Sandia has successfully fabricated
and tested a SEED interconnect, fabricated by diamond turning a moldable plastic. This
interconnect, with anti—reflection coatings, is predicted to attain close to 95% throughput. A
4OGb/s SEED toggle was also reported, but not yet cascaded. A physical model for SEED
switching was devised and initial results suggest that the Optical power for reliable cascade
may be 2—5); higher than anticipated.

(UI/FOUO) The critical milestone (2Q FY10) for these technologies is the successful
demonstration of a 3—bit 4OGb/s Linear Feedback Shift Register (LFSR) research prototype.
This demonstration of Small-Scale Integration (SSI) should provide sufficient data to enable
an assessment of the scalability and ultimate clock rate of the technologies. The majority of
this work is performed in Sandia's Microsystems and Engineering Science Applications
(MESA) facility, expected to gain certification soon by the Trusted Access Program Office
(TAPO).

TOP SECRET/’lCOMINT/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NEH/20320108

