September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks:

[Counterterrorism] strategy should . . . encompass speciﬁc efforts to . . . enhance the
depth and quality of domestic intelligence collection and analysis . . . . [T]he FBI should
strengthen and improve its domestic [intelligence] capability as fully and expeditiously as
possible by imrriediately instituting measures to . . . signiﬁcantly improve strategic
analytical capabilities . . . . (Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Community Activities Before
and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 1 1, 2001, S. Rep. No. 351 & H.R. Rep. No.
792, 107th Cong, 2d Sess. 4~7 (2002) (errata print).)

A “smart” government would integrate all sources of information to see the enemy as a
whole. Integrated all—source analysis should also inform and shape strategies to collect
more intelligence. . . . The importance of integrated, all-source analysis cannot be
overstated. Without it, it is not possible to “connect the dots." (Final Report of the
National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States 401, 408 (2004).)

Part IV of these Guidelines accordingly authorizes the FBI to engage in intelligence
analysis and planning, drawing on all lawful sources of information. The functions authorized
under that Part include: (i) development of overviews and analyses concerning threats to and
vulnerabilities of the United States and its interests, (ii) research and analysis to produce reports
and assessments concerning matters relevant to investigative activities or other authorized FBI
activities, and (iii) the operation of intelligence systems that facilitate and support investigations
through the compilation and analysis of data and information on an ongoing basis.

C. OVERSIGHT

The activities authorized by these Guidelines must be conducted in a manner consistent
with all applicable laws, regulations, and policies, including those protecting privacy and civil
liberties. The Justice Department’s National Security Division and the FBI’s II1Spection
Division, Ofﬁce of General Counsel, and Ofﬁce of Integrity and Compliance, along with other
components, share the responsibility to ensure that the Department meets these goals with respect
to national security and foreign intelligence matters. In particular, the National Security
Division’s Oversight Section, in conjunction with the FBI’s Ofﬁce of General Counsel, is
responsible for conducting regular reviews of all aspects of FBI national security and foreign
intelligence activities. These reviews, conducted at FBI ﬁeld ofﬁces and headquarter units,
broadly examine such activities for compliance with these Guidelines and other applicable
requirements.

t.

Various features of these Guidelines facilitate the National Security Division’s oversight
functions. Relevant requirements and provisions include: (i) required notiﬁcation by the FBI to
the National Security Division concerning full investigations that involve foreign intelligence
collection or investigation of United States persons in relation to threats of the national security,
(ii) annual reports by the FBI to the National Security Division concerning the FBI’s foreign

10

