however, that the choice of methods is a matter of j udgment. The FBI
shall not hesitate to use any lawful method consistent with these
Guidelines, even if intrusive, where the degree of intrusiveness is
warranted in light of the seriousness of a criminal or national security
threat or the strength of the information indicating its existence, or in light
of the importance of foreign intelligence sought to the United States’
interests. This point is to be particularly observed in investigations
relating to terrorism.

b. United States persons shall be dealt with openly and consensually to the
extent practicable when collecting foreign intelligence that does not
concern criminal activities or threats to the national security.

Respect for Legal Rights

All activities under these Guidelines must have a valid purpose consistent with
these Guidelines, and must be carried out in Conformity with the Constitution and
all applicable statutes, executive orders, Department of Justice regulations and
policies, and Attorney General guidelines. These Guidelines do not authorize
investigating or collecting or maintaining information on United States persons
solely for the purpose of monitoring activities protected by the First Amendment
or the lawful exercise of other rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the
United States. These Guidelines also do not authorize any conduct prohibited by
the Guidance Regarding the Use of Race by Federal Law Enforcement Agencies.

Undisclosed Participation in Organizations

Undisclosed participation in organizations in activities under these Guidelines
shall be conducted in accordance with FBI policy approved by the Attorney
General.

Maintenance of Records under the Privacy Act

The Privacy Act restricts the maintenance of records relating to certain activities
of individuals who are United States persons, with exceptions for circumstances
in which the collection of such information is pertinent to and within the scope of
an authorized law enforcement activity or is otherwise authorized by statute. 5
U.S.C. 552a(e)(7). Activities authorized by these Guidelines are authorized law
enforcement activities or activities for which there is otherwise statutory authority
for purposes of the Privacy Act. These Guidelines, however, do not provide an
exhaustive enumeration of authorized FBI law enforcement activities or FBI
activities for which there is otherwise statutory authority, and no restriction is
implied with respect to such activities carried out by the FBI pursuant to other

13

