II. INVESTIGATIONS AND INTELLIGENCE GATHERING

This Part of the Guidelines authorizes the FBI to conduct investigations to detect, obtain
information about, and prevent and protect against federal crimes and threats to the national
security and to collect foreign intelligence.

When an authorized purpose exists, the focus of activities authorized by this Part may be
whatever the circumstances warrant. The subject of such an activity may be, for example, a
particular crime or threatened crime; conduct constituting a threat to the national security; an
individual, group, or organization that may be involved in criminal or national security-
threatening conduct; or a topical matter of foreign intelligence interest.

Investigations may also be undertaken for protective purposes in relation to individuals,
groups, or other entities that may be targeted for criminal victimization or acquisition, or for
terrorist attack or other depredations by the enemies of the United States. For example, the
participation of the FBI in special events management, in relation to public events or other
activities whose character may make them attractive targets for terrorist attack, is an authorized
exercise of the authorities conveyed by these Guidelines. Likewise, FBI counterintelligence
activities directed to identifying and securing facilities, personnel, or information that may be
targeted for inﬁltration, recruitment, or acquisition by foreign intelligence services are authorized
exercises of the authorities conveyed by these Guidelines.

The identiﬁcation and recruitment of human sources — who may be able to provide or
obtain information relating to criminal activities, information relating to terrorism, espionage, or
other threats to the national security, or information relating to matters of foreign intelligence
interest — is also critical to the effectiveness of the FBI’s law enforcement, national security, and
intelligence programs, and activities undertaken for this purpose are authorized and encouraged.

The scope of authorized activities under this Part is not limited to “investigation” in a
narrow sense, such as solving particular cases or obtaining evidence for use in particular criminal
prosecutions. Rather, these activities also provide critical information needed for broader
analytic and intelligence purposes to facilitate the solution and prevention of crime, protect the
national security, and further foreign intelligence objectives. These purposes include use of the
information in intelligence analysis and planning under Part IV, and dissemination of the
information to other law enforcement, Intelligence Community, and White House agencies under
Part VI. Information obtained at all stages of investigative activity is accordingly to be retained
and disseminated for these purposes as provided in these Guidelines, or in FBI policy consistent
with these Guidelines, regardless of whether it furthers investigative objectives in a narrower or
more immediate sense.

In the course of activities under these Guidelines, the FBI may incidentally obtain

information relating to matters outside of its areas of primary investigative responsibility. For
example, information relating to violations of state or local law or foreign law may be

16

