incidentally obtained in the course of investigating federal crimes or threats to the national
security or in collecting foreign intelligence. These Guidelines do not bar the acquisition of such
information in the course of authorized investigative activities, the retention of such information,
or its dissemination as appropriate to the responsible authorities in other agencies or
jurisdictions. Part VI of these Guidelines includes speciﬁc authorizations and requirements for
sharing such information with relevant agencies and ofﬁcials.

This Part authorizes different levels of information gathering activity, which afford the
FBI flexibility, under appropriate standards and procedures, to adapt the methods utilized and the
information sought to the nature of the matter under investigation and the character of the
information supporting the need for investigation.

Assessments, authorized by Subpart A of this Part, require an authorized purpose but not
any particular factual predication. For example, to carry out its central mission of preventing the
commission of terrorist acts against the United States and its people, the FBI must proactively
draw on available sources of infomiation to identify terrorist threats and activities. It cannot be
content to wait for leads to come in through the actions of others, but rather must be vigilant in
detecting terrorist activities to the full extent permitted by law, with an eye towards early
intervention and prevention of acts of terrorism before they occur. Likewise, in the exercise of
its protective functions, the FBI is not constrained to wait until information is received indicating
that a particular event, activity, or facility has drawn the attention of those who would threaten
the national security. Rather, the FBI must take the initiative to secure and protect activities and
entities whose character may make them attractive targets for terrorism or espionage. The
proactive investigative authority conveyed in assessments is designed for, and may be utilized by,
the FBI in the discharge of these responsibilities. For example, assessments may be conducted as
part of the FBI’s special events management activities.

More broadly, detecting and interrupting criminal activities at their early stages, and
preventing crimes from occurring in the ﬁrst place, is preferable to allowing criminal plots and
activities to come to fruition. Hence, assessments may be undertaken proactively with such
objectives as detecting criminal activities; obtaining information on individuals, groups, or
organizations of possible investigative interest, either because they may be involved in criminal
or national security—threatening activities or because they may be targeted for attack or
victimization by such activities; and identifying and assessing individuals who may have value as
human sources. For example, assessment activities may involve proactively surﬁng the Internet
to ﬁnd publicly accessible websites and services through which recruitment by terrorist
organizations and promotion of terrorist crimes is Openly taking place; through which child
pornography is advertised and traded; through which efforts are made by sexual predators to lure
children for purposes of sexual abuse; or through which fraudulent schemes are perpetrated
against the public.

The methods authorized in assessments are generally those of relatively low
intrusiveness, such as obtaining publicly available information, checking government records,

17

