and requesting information from members of the public. These Guidelines do not impose
supervisory approval requirements in assessments, given the types of techniques that are
authorized at this stage (e.g., perusing the Internet for publicly available information). However,
FBI policy will prescribe supervisory approval requirements for certain assessments, considering
such matters as the purpose of the assessment and the methods being utilized.

Beyond the proactive information gathering functions described above, assessments may
be used when allegations or other information concerning crimes or threats to the national
security is received or obtained, and the matter can be checked out or resolved through the
relatively non-intrusive methods authorized in assessments. The checking of investigative leads
in this manner can avoid the need to proceed to more formal levels of investigative activity, if the
results of an assessment indicate that further investigation is not warranted.

Subpart B of this Part authorizes a second level of investigative activity, predicated
investigations. The purposes or objectives of predicated investigations are essentially the same
as those of assessments, but predication as provided in these Guidelines is needed — generally,
allegations, reports, facts or circumstances indicative of possible criminal or national security—
threatening activity, or the potential for acquiring information responsive to foreign intelligence
requirements — and supervisory approval must be obtained, to initiate predicated investigations.
Corresponding to the stronger predication and approval requirements, all lawful methods may be
used in predicated investigations. A classiﬁed directive provides further speciﬁcation concerning
circumstances supporting certain predicated investigations.

Predicated investigations that concern federal crimes or threats to the national security are
subdivided into preliminary investigations and full investigations. Preliminary investigations
may be initiated on the basis of any allegation or information indicative of possible criminal or
national security-threatening activity, but more substantial factual predication is required for full
investigations. While time limits are set for the completion of preliminary investigations, lull
investigations may be pursued without preset limits on their duration.

The ﬁnal investigative category under this Part of the Guidelines is enterprise
investigations, authorized by Subpart C, which permit a general examination of the structure,
scepe, and nature of certain groups and organizations. Enterprise investigations are a type of full
investigations. Hence, they are subject to the purpose, approval, and predication requirements
that apply to full investigations, and all lawful methods may be used in carrying them out. The
distinctive characteristic of enterprise investigations is that they concern groups or organizations
that may be involved in the most serious criminal or national security threats to the public _,
generally, patterns of racketeering activity, terrorism or other threats to the national security, or
the commission of offenses characteristically involved in terrorism as described in 18 U.S.C.
2332b(g)(5)(B). A broad examination of the characteristics of groups satisfying these criteria is
authorized in enterprise investigations, including any relationship of the group to a foreign
power, its size and composition, its geographic dimensions and ﬁnances, its past acts and goals,
and its capacity for harm.

18

