d. The FBI shall notify the Deputy Attomey General if FBI Headquarters
disapproves a ﬁeld ofﬁce’s initiation of a predicated investigation relating
to a threat to the national security on the ground that the predication for the
investigation is insufﬁcient.

C. ENTERPRISE INVESTIGATIONS

1.

Deﬁnition

A full investigation of a group or organization may be initiated as an enterprise
investigation if there is an articulable factual basis for the investigation that
reasonably indicates that the group or organization may have engaged or may be
engaged in, or may have or may be engaged in planning or preparation or
provision of support for:

a. a pattern of racketeering activity as deﬁned in 18 U.S.C. 1961(5);
b. international terrorism or other threat to the national security;

c. domestic terrorism as deﬁned in 18 U.S.C. 2331(5) involving a violation
of federal criminal law;

d. furthering political or social goals wholly or in part through activities that
involve force or violence and a violation of federal criminal law; or

e. an offense described in 18 U.S.C. 2332b(g)(5)(B) or 18 U.S.C. 43.
Scope

The information sought in an enterprise investigation may include a general
examination of the structure, scope, and nature of the group or organization
including: its relationship, if any, to a foreign power; the identity and relationship
of its members, employees, or other persons who may be acting in furtherance of
its objectives; its ﬁnances and resources; its geographical dimensions; and its past
and future activities and goals.

Notice and Reporting Requirements

a. The responsible Department of Justice component for the purpose of
notiﬁcation and reports in enterprise investigations is the National Security
Division, except that, for the purpose of notiﬁcations and reports in an
enterprise investigation relating to a pattern of racketeering activity that
does not involve an offense or offenses described in 18 U.S.C.
2332b(g)(5)(B), the responsible Depamnent of Justice component is the

23

