III. ASSISTANCE TO OTHER AGENCIES

The FBI is authorized to provide investigative assistance to other federal, state, local, or
tribal, or foreign agencies as provided in this Part.

The investigative assistance authorized by this Part is often concerned with the same
objectives as those identiﬁed in Part II of these Guidelines — investigating federal crimes and
threats to the national security, and collecting foreign intelligence. In' some cases, however,
investigative assistance to other agencies is legally authorized for purposes other than those
identiﬁed in Part 11, such as assistance in certain contexts to state or local agencies in the
investigation of crimes under state or local law, see 28 U.S.C. 540, 540A, 540B, and assistance
' to foreign agencies in the investigation of foreign law violations pursuant to international
agreements. Investigative assistance for such legally authorized purposes is permitted under this
Part, even if it is not for purposes identiﬁed as grounds for investigation under Part II.

The authorities provided by this Part are cumulative to Part 11 and do not limit the FBI’s
investigative activities under Part 11. For example, Subpart B.2 in this Part authorizes
investigative activities by the FBI in certain circumstances to inform decisions by the President
concerning the deployment of troops to deal with civil disorders, and Subpart B.3 authorizes
investigative activities to facilitate demonstrations and related public health and safety measures.
The requirements and limitations in these provisions for conducting investigations for the
specified purposes do not limit the FBI’s authority under Part 1] to investigate federal crimes or
threats to the national security that occur in the context of or in connection with civil disorders or
demonstrations.

A. THE INTELLIGENCE COMJVIUNITY

The FBI may provide investigative assistance (including operational support) to
authorized intelligence activities of other Intelligence Community agencies.

B. FEDERAL AGENCIES GENERALLY

1. In General
The FBI may provide assistance to any federal agency in the investigation of
federal crimes or threats to the national security or in the collection of foreign
intelligence, and investigative assistance to any federal agency for any other
purpose that may be legally authorized, including investigative assistance to the
Secret Service in support of its protective responsibilities.

2. The President in Relation to Civil Disorders

a. At the direction of the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, or

25

