the Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division, the FBI shall
collect information relating to actual or threatened civil disorders to assist
the President in determining (pursuant to the authority of the President
under 10 U.S.C. 331-33) whether use of the armed forces or militia is
required and how a decision to commit troops should be implemented.
The information sought shall concern such matters as:

i. The size of the actual or threatened disorder, both in number of
people involved or affected and in geographic area.

ii. The potential for violence.

iii. The potential for expansion of the disorder in light of community
conditions and underlying causes of the disorder.

iv. The relationship of the actual or threatened disorder to the
enforcement of federal law or court orders and the likelihood that
state or local authorities will assist in enforcing those laws or
orders.

v. The extent of state or local resources available to handle the
disorder.

Investigations under this paragraph will be authorized only for a period of
30 days, but the authorization may be renewed for subsequent 30 day
periods.

Notwithstanding Subpart E.2 of this Part, the methods that may be used in
an investigation under this paragraph are thOSe described in subparagraphs
a.—.d., subparagraph f. (other than pretext interviews or requests), or
subparagraph g. of Part H.A.4 of these Guidelines. The Attorney General,
the Deputy Attorney General, or the Assistant Attorney General for the
Criminal Division may also authorize the use of other methods described
in Part II.A.4.

3. Public Health aud Safety Authorities in Relation to Demonstrations

a.

At the direction of the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, or
the Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division, the FBI shall
collect information relating to demonstration activities that are likely to
require the federal government to take action to facilitate the activities and
provide public health and safety measures with respect to those activities.
The information sought in such an investigation shall be that needed to
facilitate an adequate federal response to ensure public health and safety

26

