and to protect the exercise of First Amendment rights, such as:

i. The time, place, and type of activities planned.
ii. The number of persons expected to participate,
iii. The expected means and routes of travel for participants and

expected time of arrival.

iv. Any plans for lodging or housing of participants in connection with
the demonstration.

b. Notwithstanding Subpart E.2 of this Part, the methods that may be used in
an investigation under this paragraph are those described in subparagraphs
a.-.d., subparagraph f. (other than pretext interviews or requests), or
subparagraph g. of Part ILAA of these Guidelines. The Attorney General,
the Deputy Attorney General, or the Assistant Attorney General for the
Criminal Division may also authorize the use of other methods described
in Part H.A.4.

STATE, LOCAL, OR TRIBAL AGENCIES

The FBI may provide investigative assistance to state, local, or tribal agencies in the
investigation of matters that may involve federal crimes or threats to the national security,
or for such other purposes as may be legally authorized.

FOREIGN AGENCIES

1.

At the request of foreign law enforcement, intelligence, or security agencies, the
FBI may conduct investigations or provide assistance to investigations by such
agencies, consistent with the interests of the United States (including national
security interests) and with due consideration of the effect on any United States
person. Investigations or assistance under this paragraph must be approved as
provided by FBI policy. The FBI shall notify the National Security Division
concerning investigation or assistance under this paragraph where: (i) FBI
Headquarters approval for the activity is required pursuant to the approval policy
adopted by the FBI for purposes of this paragraph, and (ii) the activity relates to a
threat to the national security. Notiﬁcation to the National Security Division shall
be made as soon as practicable but no later than 30 days after the approval.
Provisions regarding notiﬁcation to or coordination with the Central Intelligence
Agency by the FBI in memoranda of understanding or agreements with the
Central Intelligence Agency may also apply to activities under this paragraph.

The FBI may not provide assistance to foreign law enforcement, intelligence, or

27

