IV. INTELLIGENCE ANALYSIS AND PLANNING

The FBI is authorized to engage in analysis and planning. The FBI’s analytic activities
enable the FBI to identify and understand trends, causes, and potential indicia of criminal activity
and other threats to the United States that would not be apparent from the investigation of
discrete matters alone. By means of intelligence analysis and strategic planning, the FBI can
more effectively discover crimes, threats to the national security, and other matters of national
intelligence interest and can provide the critical support needed for the effective discharge of its
investigative responsibilities and other authorized activities. For example, analysis of threats in
the context of special events management, concerning public events or activities that may be
targeted for terrorist attack, is an authorized activity under this Part.

In carrying out its intelligence functions under this Part, the FBI is authorized to draw on
all lawful sources of information, including but not limited to the results of investigative
activities under these Guidelines. Investigative activities under these Guidelines and other
legally authorized activities through which the FBI acquires information, data, or intelligence
may properly be utilized, structured, and prioritized so as to support and effectuate the FBI’s
intelligence mission. The remainder of this Part provides further speciﬁcation concerning
activities and functions authorized as part of that mission.

A. STRATEGIC INTELLIGENCE ANALYSIS

The FBI is authorized to develop overviews and analyses of threats to and vulnerabilities
of the United States and its interests in areas related to the FBI’s responsibilities,
including domestic and international criminal threats and activities; domestic and
international activities, circumstances, and developments affecting the national security;
and matters relevant to the conduct of the United States’ foreign. affairs. The overviews
and analyses prepared under this Subpart may encompass present, emergent, and potential
threats and vulnerabilities, their contexts and causes, and identiﬁcation and analysis of
means of responding to them.

B. REPORTS AND ASSESSMENTS GENERALLY

The FBI is authorized to conduct research, analyze information, and prepare reports and
assessments concerning matters relevant to authorized FBI activities, such as reports and
assessments concerning: types of criminals or criminal activities; organized crime groups;
terrorism, espionage, or other threats to the national security; foreign intelligence matters;
or the scope and nature of criminal activity in particular geographic areas or sectors of the
economy.

C. INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS
The FBI is authorized to operate intelligence, identiﬁcation, tracking, and information

29

