V. AUTHORIZED METHODS

A. PARTICULAR METHODS

All lawful investigative methods may be used in activities under these Guidelines as
authorized by these Guidelines. Authorized methods include, but are not limited to, those
identiﬁed in the following list. The methods identified in the list are in some instances subject to
special restrictions or review or approval requirements as noted:

1.

2.

The methods described in Part ]I.A.4 of these Guidelines.
Mail covers.

Physical searches of personal or real pr0perty where a warrant or court order is not
legally required because there is no reasonable expectation of privacy (e.g., trash
covers).

Consensual monitoring of communications, including consensual computer
monitoring, subject to legal review by the Chief Division Counsel or the FBI
Ofﬁce of the General Counsel. Where a sensitive monitoring circumstance is
involved, the monitoring must be approved by the Criminal Division or, if the
investigation concerns a threat to the national security or foreign intelligence, by
the National Security Division.

Use of closed—circuit television, direction ﬁnders, and other monitoring devices,
subject to legal review by the Chief Division Counsel or the FBI Ofﬁce of the
General Counsel. (The methods described in this paragraph usually do not require
court orders or warrants unless they involve physical trespass or non-consensual
monitoring of communications, but legal review is necessary to ensure

compliance with all applicable legal requirements.)

Polygraph examinations.

Undercover operations. In investigations relating to activities in violation of
federal criminal law that do not concern threats to the national security or foreign
intelligence, undercover operations must be carried out in conformity with the
Attorney General’s Guidelines on Federal Bureau of Investigation Undercover
Operations. In investigations that are not subject to the preceding sentence
because they concern threats to the national security or foreign intelligence,
undercover operations involving religious or political organizations must be
reviewed and approved by FBI Headquarters, with participation by the National
Security Division in the review process.

Compulsory process as authorized by law, including grand jury subpoenas and

31

