Use of Classiﬁed Investigative Technologies

Inappropriate use of classiﬁed investigative technologies may risk the
compromise of such technologies. Hence, in an investigation relating to activities
in violation of federal criminal law that does not concern a threat to the national
security or foreign intelligence, the use of such technologies must be in
conformity with the Procedures for the Use of Classiﬁed Investigative
Technologies in Criminal Cases.

C. OTHERWISE ILLEGAL ACTIVITY

1.

Otherwise illegal activity by an FBI agent or employee in an undercover operation
relating to activity in violation of federal criminal law that does not concern a
threat to the national security or foreign intelligence must be approved in
conformity with the Attorney General’s Guidelines on Federal Bureau of
Investigation Undercover Operations. Approval of otherwise illegal activity in
conformity with those guidelines is sufﬁcient and satisﬁes any approval
requirement that would otherwise apply under these Guidelines.

Otherwise illegal activity by a human source must be approved in conformity with
the Attorney General’s Guidelines Regarding the Use of FBI Confidential Human
Sources.

Otherwise illegal activity by an FBI agent or employee that is not within the scope
of‘paragraph 1. must be approved by a United States Attomey’s Ofﬁce or a
Department of Justice Division, except that a Special Agent in Charge may
authorize the following:

a. otherwise illegal activity that would not be a felony under federal, state,
local, or tribal law;

b. consensual monitoring of communications, even if a crime under state,
local, or tribal law;

c. the controlled purchase, receipt, delivery, or sale of drugs, stolen property,
or other contraband;

d. the payment of bribes;

e. the making of false representations in concealment of personal identity or
the true ownership of a proprietary; and

f. conducting a money laundering transaction or transactions involving an
aggregate amount not exceeding $1 million.

33

