HOWever, in an investigation relating to a threat to the national security or foreign
intelligence collection, a Special Agent in Charge may not authorize an activity
that may constitute a violation of export control laws or laws that concern the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In such an investigation, a Special
'Agent in Charge may authorize an activity that may otherwise violate prohibitions
of material support to terrorism only in accordance with standards established by
the Director of the FBI and agreed to by the Assistant Attorney General for
National Security.

The following activities may not be authorized:

a. Acts of violence.

b. Activities whose authorization is prohibited by law, including unlawful
investigative methods, such as illegal electronic surveillance or illegal
searches.

Subparagraph a., however, does not limit the right of FBI agents or employees to
engage in any lawful use of force, including the use of force in self—defense or
defense of others or otherwise in the lawful discharge of their duties.

An agent or employee may engage in otherwise illegal activity that could be
authorized under this Subpart without the authorization required by paragraph 3. if
necessary to meet an immediate threat to the safety of persons or property or to the
national security, or to prevent the compromise of an investigation or the loss of a
signiﬁcant investigative opportunity. In such a case, prior to engaging in the
otherwise illegal activity, every effort should be made by the agent or employee to
consult with the Special Agent in Charge, and by the Special Agent in Charge to
consult with the United States Attomey’s Ofﬁce or appropriate Department of
Justice Division where the authorization of that ofﬁce or division would be
required under paragraph 3., unless the circumstances preclude such consultation.
Cases in which otherwise illegal activity occurs pursuant to this paragraph without
the authorization required by paragraph 3. shall be reported as soon as possible to
the Special Agent in Charge, and by the Special Agent in Charge to FBI
Headquarters and to the United States Attorney’s Ofﬁce or appropriate
Department of Justice Division.

In an investigation relating to a threat to the national security or foreign
intelligence collection, the National Security Division is the approving component
for otherwise illegal activity for which paragraph 3. requires approval beyond
internal FBI approval. However, ofﬁcials in other components may approve
otherwise illegal activity in such investigations as authorized by the Assistant
Attorney General for National Security.

34

