security, or to obtain information for the conduct of an authorized FBI
investigation; or

g. if dissemination of the information is otherwise permitted by the Privacy
Act (5 U.S.C. 552a).

2. Required Sharing

The FBI shall share and disseminate information as required by statutes, treaties,
Executive Orders, Presidential directives, National Security Council directives,
Homeland Security Council directives, and Attorney General-approved policies,
memoranda of understanding, or agreements.

C. INFORMATION RELATING TO CRIMINAL MATTERS
1. Coordination with Prosecutors

In an investigation relating to possible criminal activity in violation of federal law,
the agent conducting the investigation shall maintain periodic written or oral
contact with the appropriate federal prosecutor, as circumstances warrant and as
requested by the prosecutor. When, during such an investigation, a matter appears
arguably to warrant prosecution, the agent shall present the relevant facts to the
appropriate federal prosecutor. Information on investigations that have been
closed shall be available on request to a United States Attorney or his or her
designee or an appropriate Department of Justice official.

2. Criminal Matters Outside FBI Jurisdiction

When credible information is received by an FBI ﬁeld ofﬁce concerning serious
criminal activity not within the FBI’s investigativejurisdiction, the ﬁeld ofﬁce
shall promptly transmit the information or refer the complainant to a law
enforcement agency having jurisdiction, except where disclosure would
jeopardize an ongoing investigation, endanger the safety of an individual, disclose
the identity of a human source, interfere with ahuman source’s cooperation, or
reveal legally privileged information. If full disclosure is not made for the reasons
indicated, then, whenever feasible, the FBI ﬁeld ofﬁce shall make at least limited
disclosure to a law enforcement agency or agencies having jurisdiction, and full
disclosure shall be made as soon as the need for restricting disclosure is no longer
present. Where full disclosure is not made to the appropriate law enforcement
agencies within 180 days, the FBI ﬁeld ofﬁce shall promptly notify FBI
Headquarters in writing of the facts and circumstances concerning the criminal
activity. The FBI shall make periodic reports to the Deputy Attorney General on
such nondisclosures and incomplete disclosures, in a form suitable to protect the
identity of human sources.

36

