3. Reporting of Criminal Activity

a. When it appears that an FBI agent or employee has engaged in criminal
activity in the course of an investigation under these Guidelines, the FBI
shall notify the United States Attomey’s Ofﬁce or an appropriate
Department of Justice Division. When it appears that a human source has
engaged in criminal activity in the course of an investigation under these
Guidelines, the FBI shall proceed as provided in the Attorney General’s
Guidelines Regarding the Use of FBI Conﬁdential Human Sources. When
information concerning possible criminal activity by any other person
appears in the course of an investigation under these Guidelines, the FBI
shall initiate an investigation of the criminal activity if warranted, and
shall proceed as provided in paragraph 1. or 2.

b. The reporting requirements under this paragraph relating to criminal
activity by FBI agents or employees or human sources do not apply. to
otherwise illegal activity that is authorized in conformity with these
Guidelines or other Attorney General guidelines or to minor traffic
offenses.

INFORMATION RELATING TO NATIONAL SECURITY AND FOREIGN
INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

The general principle reﬂected in current laws and policies is that'there is a responsibility
to provide information as consistently and fully as possible to agencies with relevant
responsibilities to protect the United States and its people from terrorism and other threats
to the national security, except as limited by Speciﬁc constraints on such sharing. The
FBI’s responsibilities in this area include carrying out the requirements of the
Memorandum of Understanding Between the Intelligence Community, Federal Law
Enforcement Agencies, and the Department of Homeland Security Concerning
Information Sharing (March 4, 2003), or any successor memorandum of understanding or
agreement. Speciﬁc requirements also exist for internal coordination and consultation
with other Department of Justice components, and for provision of national security and
foreign intelligence information to White House agencies, as provided in the ensuing
paragraphs.

1. Department of Justice

a. The National Security Division shall have access to all information
obtained by the FBI through activities relating to threats to the national
security or foreign intelligence. The Director of the FBI and the Assistant
Attorney General for National Security shall consult concerning these
activities whenever requested by either of them, and the FBI shall provide
such reports and information concerning these activities as the Assistant

37

