Attorney General for National Security may request. In addition to any
reports or information the Assistant Attorney General for National
Security may specially request under this subparagraph, the FBI shall
provide annual reports to the National Security Division concerning its
foreign intelligence collection program, including information concerning
the scope and nature of foreign intelligence collection activities in each
FBI ﬁeld ofﬁce. '

The FBI shall keep the National Security Division apprised of all
information obtained through activities under these Guidelines that is
necessary to the ability of the United States to investigate or protect
against threats to the national security, which shall include regular
consultations between the FBI and the National Security Division to
exchange advice and information relevant to addressing such threats
through criminal prosecution or other means.

Subject to subparagraphs d. and e., relevant United States Attorneys’
Ofﬁces shall have access to and shall receive information from the FBI
relating to threats to the national security, and may engage in consultations
with the FBI relating to such threats, to the same extent as the National
Security Division. The relevant United States Attorneys’ Ofﬁces shall
receive such access and information from the FBI ﬁeld ofﬁces.

In a counterintelligence investigation — i.e., an investigation relating to a
matter described in Part VII.S.2 of these Guidelines — the FBI’s provision
of information to and consultation with a United States Attorney’s Ofﬁce
are subject to authorization by the National Security Division. In
consultation with the Executive Ofﬁce for United States Attorneys and the
FBI, the National Security Division shall establish policies setting forth
circumstances in which the FBI will consult with the National Security
Division prior to informing relevant United States Attorneys’ Ofﬁces
about such an investigation. The policies established by the National
Security Division under this subparagraph shall (among other things)
provide that:

i. the National Security Division will, within 30 days, authorize the
FBI to share with the United States Attorneys' Ofﬁces information
relating to certain espionage investigations, as deﬁned by the
policies, unless such information is withheld because of substantial
national security considerations; and

ii. the FBI may consult freely with United States Attorneys“ Ofﬁces

concerning investigations within the scope of this subparagraph
during an emergency, so long as the National Security Division is

38

