notiﬁed of such consultation as soon as practical after the
consultation.

e. Information shared with a United States Attorney’s Ofﬁce pursuant to
subparagraph c. or d. shall be disclosed only to the United States Attorney
or any Assistant United States Attorneys designated by the United States
Attorney as points of contact to receive such information. The United
States Attorneys and designated Assistant United States Attorneys shall
have appropriate security clearances and shall receive training in the
handling of. classiﬁed information and information derived from the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, including training concerning the
secure handling and storage of such information and training concerning
requirements and limitations relating to the use, retention, and
dissemination of such information.

f. The disclosure and sharing of information by the FBI under this paragraph
is subject to any limitations required in orders issued by the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court, controls imposed by the originators of
sensitive material, and restrictions established by the Attorney General or
the Deputy Attorney General in particular cases. The disclosure and
sharing of. information by the FBI under this paragraph that may disclose
the identity of human sources is governed by the relevant provisions of the
Attorney General’s Guidelines Regarding the Use of FBI Conﬁdential
Human Sources.

White House

In order to carry out their responsibilities, the President, the Vice President, the
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the Assistant to the
President for Homeland Security Affairs, the National Security Council and its
staff, the Homeland Security Council and its staff, and other White House
ofﬁcials and ofﬁces require information from all federal agencies, including
foreign intelligence, and information relating to international terrorism and other
threats to the national security. The FBI accordingly may disseminate to the
White House foreign intelligence and national security information obtained
through activities under these Guidelines, subject to the following standards and
procedures:

a. Requests to the FBI for such information from the White House shall be
made through the National Security Council staff or Homeland Security
Council staff including, but not limited to, the National Security Council
Legal and Intelligence Directorates and Ofﬁce of. Combating Terrorism,
or through the President’s Intelligence Advisory Board or the Counsel to
the President.

39

