PUBLICLY AVAILABLE: information that has been published or broadcast for public
consumption, is available on request to the public, is accessible on—line or otherwise to
the public, is available to the public by subscription or purchase, could be seen or heard
by any casual observer, is made available at a meeting open to the public, or is obtained
by visiting any place or attending any event that is open to the public.

RECORDS: any records, databases, ﬁles, indices, information systems, or other retained
information.

SENSITIVE INVESTIGATIVE MATTER: an investigative matter involving the
activities of a domestic public ofﬁcial or political candidate (involving corruption or a
threat to the national security), religious or political organization or individual prominent
in such an organization, or news media, or any other matter which, in the judgment of the
ofﬁcial authorizing an investigation, should be brought to the attention of FBI
Headquarters and other Department of Justice officials.

SENSITIVE MONITORING CIRCUMSTANCE:

1. investigation of a member of Congress, a federal judge, a member of the
Executive Branch at Executive Level IV or above, or a person who has served in
such capacity within the previous two years;

2. investigation of the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, or Attorney General of any
State or territory, or a judge or justice of the highest court of any state or territory,
concerning an offense involving bribery, conﬂict of interest, or extortion related to
the performance of ofﬁcial duties;

3. a party to the communication is in the custody of the Bureau of Prisons or the
United States Marshals Service or is being or has been afforded protection in the
Witness Security Program; or

4. the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, or an Assistant Attorney
General has requested that the FBI obtain prior approval for the use of consensual
monitoring in a speciﬁc investigation.

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE: the Special Agent in Charge of an FBI ﬁeld ofﬁce
(including an Acting Special Agent in Charge), except that the functions authoriZed for
Special Agents in Charge by these Guidelines may also be exercised by the Assistant
Director in Charge or by any Special Agent in Charge designated by the Assistant
Director in Charge in an FBI ﬁeld ofﬁce headed by an Assistant Director, and by FBI
Headquarters ofﬁcials designated by the Director of the FBI.

SPECIAL EVENTS MANAGEMENT: planning and conduct of public events or
activities whose character may make them attractive targets for terrorist attack.

44

