INTRODUCTION

As the primary investigative agency of the federal government, the. Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) has the authority and responsibility to investigate all violations of federal law
that are not exclusively assigned to another federal agency. The FBI is further vested by law and
by Presidential directives with the primary role in carrying out investigations within the United
States of threats to the national security. This includes the lead domestic role in investigating
international terrorist threats to the United States, and in conducting counterintelligence activities
to meet foreign entities’ espionage and intelligeHCe efforts directed against the United States.
The FBI is also vested with important functions in collecting foreign intelligence as a member
agency of the U.S. Intelligence Community. The FBI accordingly plays crucial roles in the
enforcement of federal law and the proper administration of justice in the United States, in the
protection of the national security, and in obtaining information needed by the United States for
the conduct of its foreign affairs. These roles reflect the wide range of the FBI’s current
responsibilities and obligations, which require the FBI to be both an agency that effectively
detects, investigates, and prevents crimes, and an agency that effectively protects the national
security and collects intelligence.

The general objective of these Guidelines is the full utilization of all authorities and
investigative methods, consistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States, to protect
the United States and its people from terrorism and other threats to the national security, to
protect the United States and its people from victimization by all crimes in violation of federal
law, and to further the foreign intelligence objectives of the United States. At the same time, it is
axiomatic that the FBI must conduct its investigations and other activities in a lawful and
reasonable manner that respects liberty and privacy and avoids unnecessary intrusions into the
lives of law-abiding people. The purposc of these Guidelines, therefore, is to establish consistent
policy in such matters. They will enable the FBI to perform its duties with effectiveness,
certainty, and conﬁdence, and will provide the American people with a ﬁrm assurance that the
FBI is acting properly under the law.

The issuance of these Guidelines represents the culmination of the historical evolution of
the FBI and the policies governing its domestic operations subsequent to the September 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks on the United States. Reflecting decisions and directives of the President and the
Attorney General, inquiries and enactments of Congress, and the conclusions of national
commissions, it was recognized that the FBI’s filnctions needed to be expanded and better
integrated to meet contemporary realities:

[C]ontinuing coordination . . . is necessary to optimize the FBI’s performance in

both national security and criminal investigations . . . . [The] new reality requires ﬁrst
that the FBI and other agencies do a better job of gathering intelligence inside the United
States, and second that we eliminate the remnants of the old “wall” between foreign
intelligence and domestic law enforcement. Both tasks must be accomplished without
sacriﬁcing our domestic liberties and the rule of law, and both depend on building a very

