different FBI from the one we had on September 10, 2001. (Report of the Commission
on the Intelligence Capabilities of the United States Regarding Weapons of Mass
Destruction 466, 452 (2005).)

In line with these objectives, the FBI has reorganized and reoriented its programs and
missions, and the guidelines issued by the Attorney General for FBI operations have been
extensively revised over the past several years. Nevertheless, the principal directives of the
Attorney General governing the FBI’s conduct of criminal investigations, national security
investigations, and foreign intelligence collection have persisted as separate documents involving
different standards and procedures for comparable activities. These Guidelines effect a more
complete integration and harmonization of standards, thereby providing the FBI and other
affected Justice Department components with clearer, more consistent, and more accessible
guidance for their activities, and making available to the public in a single document the basic
body of rules for the FBI’s domestic operations.

These Guidelines also incorporate effective oversight measures involving many
Department of Justice and FBI components, which have been adopted to ensure that all FBI
activities are conducted in a manner consistent with law and policy.

The broad operational areas addressed by these Guidelines are the FBI’s conduct of
investigative and intelligence gathering activities, including cooperation and coordination with
other components and agencies in such activities, and the intelligence analysis and planning
functions of the FBI.

A. FBI RESPONSIBILITIES — FEDERAL CRIMES, THREATS TO THE
NATIONAL SECURITY, FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

Part I] of these Guidelines authorizes the FBI to carry out investigations to detect, obtain
information about, or prevent or protect against federal crimes or threats to the national security
or to collect foreign intelligence. The major subject areas of information gathering activities
under these Guidelines — federal crimes, threats to the national security, and foreign intelligence
— are not distinct, but rather overlap extensively. For example, an investigation relating to
international terrorism will invariably crosscut these areas because international terrorism is
included under these Guidelines’ deﬁnition of “threat to the national security,” because
international terrorism subject to investigation within the United States usually involves criminal
acts that violate federal law, and because information relating to international terrorism also falls
within the deﬁnition of “foreign intelligence.” Likewise, counterintelligence activities relating to
espionage are likely to concern matters that. constitute threats to the national security, that
implicate violations or potential violations of federal espionage laws, and that involve
information falling under the deﬁnition of “foreign intelligence.”

While some distinctions in the requirements and procedures for investigations are
necessary in differentsubjeot areas, the general design of these Guidelines is to take a uniform

