approach wherever possible, thereby promoting certainty and consistency regarding the
applicable standards and facilitating compliance with'those standards. Hence, these Guidelines
do not require that the FBI’s information gathering activities be differentially labeled as “criminal
investigations,” “national security investigations,” or “foreign intelligence collections,” or that
the categories of FBI personnel who carry out investigations be segregated from each other based
on the subject areas in which they operate. Rather, all of the FBI’s legal authorities are available
for deployment in all cases to which they apply to protect the public from crimes and threats to
the national security and to further the United States’ foreign intelligence objectives. In many
cases, a single investigation will be supportable as an exercise of a number of these authorities —
i.e., as an investigation of a federal crime or crimes, as an investigation of a threat to the national
security, andfor as a collection of foreign intelligence.

1. Federal Crimes

The FBI has the authority to investigate all federal crimes that are not exclusively
assigned to other agencies. In most ordinary criminal investigations, the immediate objectives
include such matters as: determining whether a federal crime has ocCurred or is occurring, or if
planning or preparation for such a crime is taking place; identifying, locating, and apprehending
the perpetrators; and obtaining the evidence needed for prosecution. Hence, close cooperation
and coordination with federal prosecutors in the United States Attorneys’ Ofﬁces and the Justice
Department litigating divisions are essential both to ensure that agents have the investigative
tools and legal advice at their disposal for which prosecutorial assistance or approval is needed,
and to ensure that investigations are conducted in a manner that will lead to successful
prosecution. Provisions in many parts of these Guidelines establish procedures and requirements
for such coordination.

2. Threats to the National Security

The FBI’s authority to investigate threats to the national security derives from the
executive order concerning U.S. intelligence activities, from delegations of functions by the
Attorney General, and from various statutory sources. See, e.g., E.O. 12333; 50 U.S.C. 401 et
seq.; 50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. These Guidelines (Part VILS) speciﬁcally deﬁne threats to the
national security to mean: international terrorism; espionage and other intelligence activities,
sabotage, and assassination, conducted by, for, or on behalf of foreign powers, organizations, or
persons; foreign computer intrusion; and other matters determined by the Attorney General,
consistent with Executive Order 12333 or any successor order.

Activities within the deﬁnition of “threat to the national security" that are subject to
investigation under these Guidelines commonly involve violations (or potential violations) of
federal criminal laws. Hence, investigations of such threats may constitute an exercise both of
the FBI’s criminal investigation authority and of the FBI’s authority to investigate threats to the
national security. As with criminal investigations generally, detecting and solving the crimes,
and eventually arresting and prosecuting the perpetrators, are likely to be among the objectives of

