investigations relating to threats to the national security. But these investigations also often serve
important purposes outside the ambit of normal criminal investigation and prosecution, by
providing the basis for, and informing decisions concerning, other measures needed to protect the
national security. These measures may include, for example: excluding or removing persons
involved in terrorism or espionage from the United States; recruitment of double agents; ﬁeezing
assets of organizations that engage in or support terrorism; securing targets of: terrorism or
espionage; providing threat information and warnings to other federal, state, local, and private
agencies and entities; diplomatic or military actions; and actions by other intelligence agencies to
counter international terrorism or other national security threats.

In line with this broad range of purposes, investigations of threats to the national security
present Special needs to coordinate with other Justice Department components, including
particularly the Justice Department’s National Security DivisiOn, and to share information and
cooperate with other agencies with national security responsibilities, including other agencies of
the US. Intelligence Community, the Department of Homeland Security, and relevant White
House (including National Security Council and Homeland Security Council) agencies and
entities. Various provisions in these Guidelines establish procedures and requirements to
facilitate such coordination.

3. Foreign Intelligence

As with the investigation of threats to the national security, the FBI’s authority to collect
foreign intelligence derives from a mixture of administrative and statutory sources. See, e. g.,
E.O. 12333; 50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.; 50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.; 28 U.S.C. 532 note (incorporating
PL. 108—458 §§ 2001—2003). These Guidelines (Part VILE) deﬁne foreign intelligence to mean
“information relating to the capabilities, intentions, or activities of foreign governments or
elements thereof, foreign organizations or foreign persons, or international terrorists.”

The FBI’s foreign intelligence collection activities have been expanded by legislative and
administrative reforms subsequent to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, reflecting the
FBI’s role as the primary collector of foreign intelligence within the United States, and the
recognized imperative that the United States’ foreign intelligence collection activities become
more ﬂexible, more proactive, and more efﬁcient in order to protect the homeland and adequately
inform the United States’ crucial decisions in its dealings with the rest of the world:

The collection of information is the foundation of everything that the Intelligence
COmmunity does. While successful collection cannot ensure a good analytical product,
the failure to collect information . . . turns analysis into guesswork. And as our review
demonstrates, the Intelligence Community’s human and technical intelligence collection
agencies have collected far too little information on many of the issues we care about
most. (Report of the Commission on the Intelligence Capabilities of the United States
Regarding Weapons of Mass Destruction 351 (2005).)

