These Guidelines accordingly provide standards and procedures for the FBI’s foreign intelligence
collection activities that meet current needs and realities and optimize the FBI’s ability to
discharge its foreign intelligence collection functions.

The authority to collect foreign intelligence extends the sphere of the FBI’s information
gathering activities beyond federal crimes and threats to the national security, and permits the
FBI to seek information regarding a broader range of matters relating to foreign powers,
organizations, or persons that may be of interest to the conduct of the United States’ foreign
affairs. The FBI’s role is central to the effective collection of foreign intelligence within the
United States because the authorized domestic activities of other intelligence agencies are more
constrained than those of the FBI under applicable statutes and Executive Order 12333. In
collecting foreign intelligence, the FBI will generally be guided by nationally—determined
intelligence requirements, including the National Intelligence Priorities Framework and the
National HUMINT Collection Directives, or any successor directives issued under the authority
of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). As provided in Part VHF of these Guidelines,
foreign intelligence requirements may also be established by the President or Intelligence
Community ofﬁcials designated by the President, and by the Attorney General, the Deputy
Attorney General, or an ofﬁcial designated by the Attorney General.

The general guidance of the FBI’s foreign intelligence collection activities by DM-
authorized requirements does not, however, limit the FBI’s authority to conduct investigations
supportable on the basis of its other authorities to investigate federal crimes and threats to the
national security — in areas in which the information sought also falls under the deﬁnition of
foreign intelligence. The FBI conducts investigations of federal crimes and threats to the
national security based on priorities and strategic objectives set by the Department of Justice and
the FBI, independent of DNI-established foreign intelligence collection requirements.

Since the authority to collect foreign intelligence enables the FBI to obtain information
pertinent to the United States’ conduct of its foreign affairs, even if that information is not related
to criminal activity or threats to the national security, the information so gathered may concern
lawful activities. The FBI should accordingly operate openly and consensually with US. persons
to the extent practicable when collecting foreign intelligence that does not concern criminal
activities or threats to the national security.

B. THE FBI AS AN INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

The FBI is an intelligence agency as well as a law enforcement agency. Its basic
functions accordingly extend beyond limited investigations of discrete matters, and include
broader analytic and planning functions. The FBI’s responsibilities in this area derive from
various administrative and statutory sources. See, e. g., EO. 12333 ; 28 U.S.C. 532 note
(incorporating P.L. 108-458 §§ 2001-2003) and 534 note (incorporating P.L. 109-162 § 1107).
Enhancement of the FBI’s intelligence analysis capabilities and functions has consistently been
recognized as a key priority in the legislative and administrative reform efforts following the

