[edit] Other
Genialto Yuaawaa — secure ﬁle sharing service identiﬁed. apparently used by genialto employees— maybe just as testers?

. Findings from-

JTHIG research identified — as a Gemalto Technical [onsultant in Prague. Searching in LDAD revealed an item in
which an email was sent from sharinﬁyuuwaamom to a nmIber of @gemalto.com email addresses, including — and -
_ l[who is already known to us as a Tech [onsultantL Investigation on the internet revealed that ‘I'uuwaa lm.yum1aa.coml
is a device for storing and sharing files sold by Gemalto. It consists of a LIED stick and associated

management software. The device also provides access to online storage using a subscription model. It claims to use 123—bit SSL
to encrypt the traffic to the online storage location. The device is aimed at the general consuler market, so presmIably Demalto
is encouraging its employees to use it. Amusingly, the quotes from “customers" on the website all appear to be from Gemalto

employees !

— is a llinemalto employee in Singapore. His job title is I'Eales — Telecom Solutions and Services". He will shortly
lIFeb,.I"March 26111 be moving to Paris {still with Gemaltol

— is described as a "[onsuler Device — Product Marketing Manager" at La [iotat {France}. He appears to be some sort
of adIinist rator for ‘I'uuwaa, and we have not seen any indication that he will have any data of interest, so he is unlikely to be worth following up.

— is "Technical Account Manager MEIHA—Telecom" and is based in Dubai {from previous knowledge}. He did not see
any interesting data in collection, and since we have good coverage of the Dubai office, further investigation is probably
unnecessary at this time.

— is "EITD TEaI Servers Softwarefﬂoud Eomputing Innovation HE {hairman" and is not likely to be of interest.
— is Account Manager {Middle Eastl and is based in Dubai {see —l

— appears to be Sales Manager for Gemalto l{Thailand}. He saw him sending PEP—enc rypted output files in
IME‘I'EEME. Again, if we ever become more interested in this area, he would certainly be a good place to start.

All other names {other than — who was already known aboutl did not have any useful information or any details of
their role.

For a full list of names, see the [MAPS l— contactsl under DP HIﬂ-lLMIII FLII'Ik'i.

. Hopefully some of this information will be useful in future efforts against Genialto.

