TOP SECRET/ISU/REL TO USA, FVEY

 

participants, off-net or on-net
operations, CNE command,
control and data exfiltration
tools/capabilities and locations,
used to exploit or maintain

See remarks for foreign
releasability.

ECI.

(U) Foreign releasability
decisions handled on a case-
by-case basis. Contact TAO

 

 

 

intrusive access to a target’s CAO for further guidance.
IT/computer structure

40. (S//SI//REL) Combination of TOP SECRET//SI Sec 1.4 (c) *25 years (U) Details may also be
details of individual aspects of protected by one or more
CNE activities, that would See remarks for foreign ECI.
allow a specific target to take releasability.
specific counter-measures, such (U) Foreign releasability
as: decisions handled on a case-
- Specific target network or by-case basis. Contact TAO
device El CAO for further guidance.
- Specific capability, tool or
technique used for exploitation
of vulnerability

41. (TS//SI//REL) The fact that TOP SECRET//SI Sec 1.4(c) *25 years (U//FOUO) Details may also

NSA/CSS (or TAO) acquires
cryptographic enabling
information through CNE
activities.

 

See remarks for foreign
releasability.

 

 

 

be protected by one or more
ECI and/or HCS.

(U) Foreign releasability
decisions handled on a case-
by-case basis. Contact TAO
CAO for further guidance.

 

(U) *25 years: Declassification in 25 years indicates that the information is classified for 25 years from the date a

 

document is created or 25 years from the date of this original classification decision, whichever is later.

ACRONYMS/DEFINITIONS:

 

(U) Computer Network Exploitation (CNE): intelligence collection and enabling operations to gather data from
target or adversary automated information systems (AIS) or networks. (Per DCID 7/3, Information Operations and
Intelligence Community Related Activities, effective 01 July 1999, administratively changed 5 June 2003)

(U) Computer Network Attack (CNA): operations to manipulate, disrupt, deny, degrade, or destroy information
resident in computers and computer networks, or the computers and networks themselves. (Per DCID 7/3, Information
Operations and Intelligence Community Related Activities, effective 01 July 1999, administratively changed 5 June
2003)

(U) Computer Network Defense (CND): efforts to defend against the CNO of others, especially that directed against
U.S. and allied computers and networks. (Per DCID 7/3, Information Operations and Intelligence Community Related
Activities, effective 01 July 1999, administratively changed 5 June 2003)

(U) Computer Network Operations (CNO): CNE, CNA, and CND collectively. (Per DCID 7/3, Information
Operations and Intelligence Community Related Activities, effective 01 July 1999, administratively changed 5 June
2003)

(U) Information Operations (10): actions taken to affect adversary information and information systems while
defending one’s own information and information systems. 10 is an integrating strategy. (Per DCID 7/3, Information
Operations and Intelligence Community Related Activities, effective 01 July 1999, administratively changed 5 June
2003)

TOP SECRET/ISU/REL TO USA, FVEY

