exceptions specified in FISA, a speciﬁc court order from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court based on a showing of probable cause is required for this type of collection.

Collection of U._S. Person Data

There are three additional FISA authorities that NSA relies on, after gaining court approval, that
involve the acquisition of communications, or information about communications, of US.
persons for foreign intelligence purposes on which additional focus is appropriate. These are the
Business Records FISA provision in Section 501 (also known by its section numbering within
the PATRIOT Act as Section 215) and Sections 704 and 705(b) of the FISA.

Business Records FISA. Section 215

Under NSA’s Business Records FISA program (or BR FISA), ﬁrst approved by the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) in 2006 and subsequently reauthorized during two
different Administrations, four different Congresses, and by 14 federal judges, specified U.S.
telecommunications providers are compelled by court order to provide NSA with information
about telephone calls to, from, or within the US. The information is known as metadata, and
consists of information such as the called and calling telephone numbers and the date, time, and
duration of the call — but no user identiﬁcation, content, or cell site locational data. The purpose
of this particular collection is to identify the US. nexus of a foreign terrorist threat to the
homeland

The Government cannot conduct substantive queries of the bulk records for any purpose other
than counterterrorism. Under the FISC orders authorizing the collection, authorized queries may
only begin with an “identiﬁer,” such as a telephone number, that is associated with one of the
foreign terrorist organizations that was previously identified to and approved by the Court. An
identiﬁer used to commence a query of the data is referred to as a “seed.” Speciﬁcally, under
Court-approved rules applicable to the program, there must be a “reasonable, articulable
suspicion” that a seed identifier used to query the data for foreign intelligence purposes is
associated with a particular foreign terrorist organization. When the seed identiﬁer is reasonably
believed to be used by a US. person, the suspicion of an association with a particular foreign
terrorist organization cannot be based solely on activities protected by the First Amendment.

The “reasonable, articulable suspicion” requirement protects against the indiscriminate querying
of the collected data. Technical controls preclude NSA analysts from seeing any metadata unless
it is the result of a query using an approved identifier.

The BR FISA program is used in cases where there is believed to be a threat to the homeland.

Of the 54 terrorism events recently discussed in public, 13 of them had a homeland nexus, and in
12 of those cases, BR FISA played a role. Every search into the BR FISA database is auditable
and all three branches of our government exercise oversight over NSA’s use of this authority.

FISA Sections 704 and 705(b)

FISA Section 704 authorizes the targeting of a US. person outside the US. for foreign
intelligence purposes if there is probable cause to believe the US. person is a foreign power or is
an officer, employee, or agent of a foreign power. This requires a specific, individual court order

