The Oversight and Compliance Framework

NSA has an internal oversight and compliance framework to provide assurance that NSA’s
activities — its people, its technology, and its operations — act consistently with the law and with
NSA and US. intelligence community policies and procedures. This framework is overseen by
multiple organizations external to NSA, including the Director of National Intelligence, the
Attorney General, the Congress, and for activities regulated by FISA, the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court.

NSA has had different minimization procedures for different types of collection for decades.
Among other things, NSA’s minimization procedures, to include procedures implemented by
United States Signals Intelligence Directive No. SP0018 (USSID 18), provide detailed
instructions to NSA personnel on how to handle incidentally acquired US. person information.
The minimization procedures reﬂect the reality that US. communications ﬂow over the same
communications channels that foreign intelligence targets use, and that foreign intelligence
targets often discuss information concerning U.S. persons, such as US. persons who may be the
intended Victims of a planned terrorist attack. Minimization procedures direct NSA on the
proper way to treat information at all stages of the foreign intelligence process in order to protect
U.S. persons’ privacy interests.

In 2009 NSA stood up a formal Director of Compliance position, affirmed by Congress in the
FY2010 Intelligence Authorization Bill, which monitors verifiable consistency with laws and
policies designed to protect US. person information during the conduct of NSA’s mission. The
program managed by the Director of Compliance builds on a number of previous efforts at NSA,
and leverages best practices from the professional compliance community in industry and
elsewhere in the government. Compliance at NSA is overseen internally by the NSA Inspector
General and is also overseen by a number of organizations external to NSA, including the
Department of Justice, the Ofﬁce of the Director of National Intelligence, and the Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Intelligence Oversight, the Congress, and the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court.

In addition to NSA’s compliance safeguards, NSA personnel are obligated to report when they
believe NSA is not, or may not be, acting consistently with law, policy, or procedure. This self-
reporting is part of the culture and fabric of NSA. If NSA is not acting in accordance with law,
policy, or procedure, NSA will report through its internal and external intelligence oversight
channels, conduct reviews to understand the root cause, and make appropriate adjustments to
constantly improve.

