TOP SECRET/lSI/TK/INOFORN

 

GI) Serious or exceptionally
grave damage to national
security can be expected if
this material were to be
declassiﬁed, depending on
the particular information

 

being revealed.

9. GI) Information that contains or CONFIDENTIAL/lREL TO 75Xl *75 years aJ/lFOUO) This includes the
reveals foreign SIGINT partner USA, FVEY at a minimum 75X3 from either basic “fact of’ speciﬁc Third
equities 75X6 the date of Party partnerships, names of

7 5X9 material or personnel associated with
the end of partner organizations (Second
the or Third Party), indications of

particular projects that were worked
partnership, with speciﬁc foreign partners
whichever (Second or Third Party),

is longer collection locations in partner
nations (Second or Third

Party), etc.

aJ/lFOUO) NSA/CSS’s
foreign partners provide NSA
with unique and valuable
insights on a wide variety of
issues that are critical to US.
national security (e.g.,
counterterrorism, combating
proliferation, and regional
stability). It is a given that
they need to protect their
equities as vehemently as
NSA/CSS protects its own.

If NSA/CSS were to release
information that revealed the
equities of its foreign partners
(Second as well as Third
Parties), the future of its
SIGINT foreign partnerships
would be at stake.

GI) Various levels of harm to
national security can be

expected if this material were
to be declassiﬁed, depending
on the particular information

 

 

 

 

 

 

being revealed.

10. aJ/lFOUO) Information CONFIDENTIAL/lREL TO 75Xl *75 years aJ/lFOUO) Revealing
revealing speciﬁc overseas USA, FVEY at a minimum 75X3 from either speciﬁc overseas collection
collection and High-Frequency 75X6 the date of and HFDF locations could
Direction Finding (HFDF) material or adversely affect Third Party
locations that remain open closure of SIGINT partnerships and
today site, reveal NSA/CSS’s HFDF

whichever capability strengths and
is longer weaknesses. Such revelations

 

TOP SECRET/lSI/TK/INOFORN

 

