SIDToday - NSA's Offensive and Defensive Missions: The Twain Have Met

from it? Here's a success story demonstrating that we are indeed
seeing concrete beneﬁts right now from "mission blending":

 

(TS/lSI/IREL) Years ago it would have been hard to imagine that NSA's defensive
side of the house (Information Assurance) and its offensive (SIGINT) mission could
work together and allow NSA to collect other people's SIGINT, but that is exactly
what is happening as we speak.

(SI/REL) Our story begins in July 2009 at the NSA/CSS Threat Operations Center
(NTOC) -- an organization with a blended foreign intelligence (SIGINT) and
information assurance mission. While analyzing malicious ﬁles targeting DoD
users, NTOC personnel at Fort Meade discovered an IP address of a command-
and-control node being used by Asia-based hackers associated with an organized
series of intrusions known as BYZANTINE RAPTOR. (Note this success story
started with a tip from the computer-network defense side of the house.)

(TS//SI//REL) With this IP address in hand, SIGINTers (speciﬁcally SID's Tailored
Access Operations (TAO/332)) were able to get sustained collection on this C2
node. Consequently, NTOC-Hawaii has enjoyed visibility into data that BYZANTINE
RAPTOR is routing through the node. This data includes tasking and collection
from a Chinese computer-network exploitation (CNE) operation against the United
Nations.

(TS//SI//REL) This collection occasionally includes documents China has stolen
from the United Nations network. Since NSA has sustained collection on this C2
node, we can intercept these same documents. In effect, NSA is able to tap into
Chinese SIGINT collection -- a phenomenon called "Fourth Party collection."**

(TS//SI//REL) The collection is sent to the PINWALE raw-trafﬁc database for
corporate storage and retrieval. Whenever new documents are sent to PINWALE,
NTOC-Hawaii tips off target analysts in S2. As a result, S2's UN target ofﬁce has
issued three SIGINT reports based on this "Fourth Party collection," all dealing
with high-interest, high-proﬁle current events.

(U//FOUO) This is a tremendous example of the entire NSA -- the offensive and
defensive missions, headquarters and ﬁeld -- truly operating as a single enterprise,
with analysts and collectors connecting data in non-traditional ways to get
intelligence to our customers.

 

(U) Notes:

* (U/FOUO) Ref: DIRgram-290 ("Transformation 2.0 - The Next Step“), the ﬁrst
"strategic thrust." Also, for background on what drove mission blending, see this
SIDtoday interview with former IAD Chief- question 4.

** (SI/SI/lREL) See a related article for background on 4th Party collection.

Zof3

