SECRET

TTT “.7“? Tech Tracking and Trends — Requests fcr
tech tracking cr trends data
EP “.7“? Requests BEARDED PIGGY acccunts

The DS Admin nctifies the TL cf the task and updates it changing the PDC to
the TL’s sid and adding a ncte tc the ‘Updates’ field in the fcllcwing fcrmai:

‘Passed tc :TL’s sid> cn :ddi’mmtyy: by :DS Admin’s sid>’

DS Admin then sends an email to the task criginatcr nctifying them which TL
is handling the task.

If the task is inapprcpriate fcr |Crypt Dps cr is cne that there will be nc
rescurces available for in the fcreseeable future then the TL changes the Task
Status tc ‘Rejected’ and nctifies the task criginatcr explaining why the task has
been rejected. The task’s Reccrd Status is then set to rﬁtrchive’.

If it is an apprcpriate achievable task the TL takes the fcllcwing steps:

- Determine what pricrity the task shculd be

- Decide if the timescale is achievable given the available rescurces and
perscnnel

- Decide if the necessary rescurces are available

- If an apprcpriate perscn is available assign them

Ta |f rescurces are net currently available but the task is cne that Crypt Dps will
definitely ccmplete scme time in the near future when rescurces are available the
TL shculd ccntact thetasks criginatcr and infcrm them cf when, realistically,
rescurces will be available and wcrk started.

Tb. If they still wish the task to be undertaken then a new timescale shculd be
negctiated.

Tc.

The Task Status shculd then be set tc ‘Suspended’ and the Reccrd Status is

left as ‘Draft’.

"r".

9.

1f].

'l'lx

These tasks will be checked as part cf the Data Stcre review tc ensure that
wcrk starts cn them as seen as rescurces beccme available.

Once this is dcne the tasks Reccrd Status is set to ‘Current’, the Task Status
is set tc Sitssigned’ and the update field shculd be filled in as fcllcws:

Wcrk tc be carried cut by :cassignees sid> starting cn :cddi'mmfyy‘: assigned
by :TL’s sid>

"|.!: ' :. -. '|:.:|' 'l ::. .' : ':' l-' :'| ll'l "|.!: ' -"-.:L' """ _:- :'|.!-.':. :..:. i: -. '|:.:' ':'

-I --..:; - -.I-: I - ' ---':-«'||=«" —
SECRET

