UNCLASSIFIEDHFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

which may be a violation of U.S. law, or may have been, ifthose acts were committed in
the United States; and,

1.14.2 appear to be intended——
1.14.2.1 to intimidate or coerce a civilian population;
1.14.2.2 to inﬂuence the policy ofa government by intimidation or coercion; or,

1.14.2.3 to affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination,
kidnapping, or hostage—taking.

1.15 This includes activities that facilitate or support TERRORISM and/or TERRORIST ACTIVITIES such
as providing a safe house, transportation, communications, funds, transfer of funds or other
material beneﬁt, false documentation or identiﬁcation, weapons (including chemical,
biological, or radiological weapons), explosives, or training for the commission of an act of
TERRORISM and/or TERRORIST ACTIVITY.

1.16 lISPD-24 speaks in terms of “articulable and reasonable basis for suspicion” to describe a
KNOWN or SUSPECTED TERRORIST who should be watchlistcd and represents the President’s
most recent explanation concerning U.S. policy regarding the individuals who pose a threat to
national security and should be screened to better protect the American people. Accordingly,
that standard has been adopted and is clariﬁed in this Watchlisting Guidance in Chapter 3,
Section 11.

1.17 On December 16, 2005, in accordance with section 1016 oflRTPA, the President issued a
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies prescribing the
guidelines and requirements in support of the creation and implementation of the Information
Sharing Environment (lSE). ln Guideline 5 of that Memorandum, the President directed, as
he had earlier in Executive Order 13353 '2, that the information privacy rights and other legal
rights of Americans must be protected and that guidelines be developed and approved to
ensure that “such rights are protected in the development and use ofthe lSE.” In December
2006, the President approved for issuance the [SE Privacy Guidelines by the Program
Manager.

1.18 A second addendum to the TSC MOU, Addendum B '4, which supplements and incorporates
by reference all provisions of the TSC MOU, superseded Addendum A and became effective
on January 18, 2007. The Directors ofNational lntelligence, NCTC, and the TSC joined as
signatories in Addendum B. Paragraph 7 of Addendum B introduces the term TERRORIST
IDENTIFIERS to more clearly describe the type of TERRORIST identity elements that are deemed

'2 See Executive Order 13353, Establishing the President's Board on Safeguarding Americans‘ Civil Liberties (August
27, 2004).

'3 See Guidelines to Ensure that Information Privacy and other Legal Rights of Americans are Protected in the
Development and Use ofthe Information Sharing Environment (December. 2006).

'1 See Appendix 4, Addendum B to the TSC MOU.

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

Page | 9

