MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUN FED RAL LAW NFORCEM NT A VCIES. AN DEPARTMENT
OF HOMELAND SECURITY CONCERNING INFORMATION SHARING

This Agreement provides a framework and guidance to govern information sharing. use.
and handling between; the Secretary of Homeland Security. on behalf of the Department of
Homeland Security (DHS). including all entities that are or become, wholly or in part. elements
of DHS; the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI), on behalf of all entities that are, or become.
wholly or in part. elements of the United States Intelligence Community (IC), other than those
that are to become part of DHS; and the Attorney General. on behalf of the Department of Justice
(DOI). including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and all entities that are, or become, wholly
or in part, elements of DO]. and any other department, agency. or entity having federal law
enforcement responsibilities. other than those that are to become part of DHS.

I. Scope 0! Application. This Agreement shall be binding on all such departments.
agencies. and entities on whose behalf the Secretary of Homeland Security. the DCl. and the
Attorney General agree herein. This Agreement is intended to mandate minimum requirements
and procedures for information sharing. use. and handling. and for coordination and deconfliction
of analytic judgments. Departments and agencies are encouraged to develop additional
procedures and mechanisms to provide for greater information sharing and coordination than
required herein. consistent with the DHS Legislation and other relevant statutory authon'ties.
Presidential Directives. the President's announced policies for protecting against terronst threats
to the homeland. and this Agreement, including. but not limited to:

(a) the Homeland Security Act of 2002;

(b) the National Security Act of l947. as amended;

(c) the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required
to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 200l;

(d) the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. as amended;

(e) Executive Order l2333. as amended. and any subsequent Executive Orders on
Intelligence Activities;

(0 Executive Order I323 l . as amended. and any subsequent Executive Orders on
Homeland Security;

(g) Guidelines Regarding Disclosure to the Director of Central Intelligence and
Homeland Security Ofﬁcials of Foreign Intelligence Acquired in the Course of a
Criminal Investigation. dated September 23. 2002; and

(h) Guidelines for Disclosure of Grand Jury and Electronic. Wire. and Oral
Interception Information Identifying United States Persons. dated September 23.
2002.

To the extent that this Agreement provides for more expansive information shanng than
other authorities or agreements. with the exception of statutes. or Presidential Directives
including, but not limited to. Executive Orders. (“Presidential Directives"), the more expanswe
provisions of this Agreement shall be followed

 

2
”'3
”'3
(i.
3
C—
V-

E

 

