 

 

p

'0
Q
9-.

2. Deﬁnitions. .For purposes of this Agreement:

(X

(a) "Analytic conclusion" means the product of analysis of one or more pieces
of information in which inferences are drawn from the information being analyzed to
arrive at a determination about a fact - such as, for example, a potential threat - that is
not explicit or apparent from the face of the original information itself. It does not
include, for example, a summary of the factual content of a piece of intelligence
information, a report of an interview. or a report or other document that merely collects
and summarizes information from multiple sources about the same or related topics. or
other types of communication which do not include analytic conclusions as described
above.

(b) “Attorney General“ means the Attorney General of the United States or the
Attorney General‘s designcc. except as otherwise provided herein.

(c) "Classiﬁed information“ means information that has been determined pursuant
to Executive Order No. l2958..or any successor order, Executive Order No.
l295l. or any successor order. or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C.
20l l), to require protection against unauthorized disclosure.

(d) “Covered entity“ means; any department, agency. bureau, ofﬁce or other
entity that is. or becomes. wholly or in pan. an element of the Department of Homeland
Security (including the Department itself); any department, agency. bureau. ofﬁce or
other entity that is. or becomes. wholly or in part, an element of the United States
intelligence Community or the Department of Justice; and any other department, agency.
or entity having federal law enforcement responsibilities:

(c) "Covered information“ means terrorism information, weapons of mass
destruction (WMD) information, vulnerabilities information. and other information
relevant to the duties of the Department of Homeland Security, as well as analyses based
wholly or in part on such covered information.

(f) “Department“ or “DHS” shall mean the Department of Homeland Security
and any entity that is, or becomes, an element of that Department.

(3) “DHS Legislation“ means the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (HR. 5005,
107th Congress. 2d Session) (November 26. 2002). as it may be amended from' time to
time. ,'

(h) “DCl” means the Director of Central Intelligence. or, except as otherwise
provided herein, the DCl's designce, in his or her capacity as head of the Intelligence
Community, and as head of the Central Intelligence Agency. .

(i) "Foreign intelligence" has the meaning given to that term in section 3 of
the National Security Act of I947. as amended (50 U.S.C. 40la). as that statutory term
may be amended from time to time. I

