(j) "Homeland" means the United States as deﬁned in the DHS Legislation.

(k) “Infrastructure" means the basic systems, assets, facilities, services, and
installations needed for the functioning of our society. The term includes, but is not
limited to, critical infrastructure, meaning systems and assets, whether physical or virtual.
so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems and assets
would have a debilitating impact on United States national security, economic security,
national public health or safety, or any combination of these. Critical infrastructure
includes, but is not limited to, agriculture, food, water, public health, emergency services,
government. defense industrial base, information and telecommunications, energy,
transportation, banking and ﬁnance, chemical industry and hazardous materials, postal
and shipping, and national monuments and icons. -

(1) “Infrastructure information“ means all information related to the
identiﬁcation, status, security, criticality, risk assessment, vulnerability to all means of
attack, interdependency. and attack consequences (including potential impact on public
health or safety, the economy, national security, governance and public conﬁdence) of the
infrastnrcture of the United States.

(m) "Intelligence Community" has the meaning given it in section 3(4) of the
National Security Act of I947 (50 U.S.C. 40| a(4)), as it may be amended from time to
time.

(n) "Need-to-know" means a determination made by an authorized holder of
classiﬁed information, or sensitive law enforcement information, that a prospective
recipient requires access to a specific piece, or category of information in order to
perform or assist in a lawful and authorized governmental function.

(0) "Parties" means the signatories to this Agreement and their successors, on
behalf of all covered entities they head, supervise or represent.

(p) "PATRIOT Act" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by
Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA
PATRIOT) Act of200l, Pub. L. l07-56, 115 Stat. 272, 278-81.

(q) ”Secretary” means the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary's
designce. cx ccpt as otherwise provided herein.

(r) "Terrorism information" means all information relating to the existence.
organization, capabilities, plans. intentions, vulnerabilities, mcans of finance or material
support, or activities of foreign or international terrorist groups or individuals, domestic
groups or individuals involved in terrorism. to threats posed by such groups or individuals
to the United States, United States persons, or United States interests, or to those of other
nations, or to communications between such youps or individuals, and to

‘ld\'

g xipuat

 

