UNCLASSIFIED/lFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

lJ/lFOUO, without regard to the classiﬁcation of the source material from which it is drawn.
TERRORIST IDENTIFIERS include those listed in Addendum B (i.e., names and aliases; dates of
birth; places of birth; unique identifying numbers; passport information; countries of origin
and nationality; physical identiﬁers; known locations; photographs or renderings; ﬁngerprints
or other biometric data; employment data; license plate numbers; and any other TERRORIST
IDENTIFIERS that ORIGINATORS speciﬁcally provide for passage to the TSC). For example,
email addresses and phone numbers are increasingly useful for screening purposes.
ORIGINATORS should mark email addresses and phone numbers as U//FOUO whenever
possible and pass these TERRORIST IDENTIFIERS to NCTC to forward to the TSC for inclusion
in 'l‘SDB. ORIGINATORS are encouraged to provide all relevant and unclassiﬁed information,
to include social media information when appropriate.

III. CONSTITUTIONALLY PROTECTED ACTIVITIES

1.19 First Amendment. First Amendment protected activity alone shall not be the basis for
nominating an individual for inclusion on the Terrorist Watchlist.IS The following are
examples of protected Constitutional activities:

1.19.1 Free Speech. The exercise of free speech, guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution,
includes more than simply speaking on a controversial topic in the town square. it
includes such symbolic or other written, oral and expressive activities as carrying
placards in a parade, sending letters to a newspaper editor, wearing a tee shirt with a
political message, placing a bumper sticker critical of the President on one’s car, and
publishing books or articles. The common thread in these examples is conveying a
public message or an idea through words or deeds. Speech that may be repugnant to
ideas of the majority may still be protected by the U.S. Constitution. For the purpose of
this Watchlisting Guidance, the right of protected free speech under the U.S.
Constitution applies to U.S. PERSONS wherever they are located and to non- U.S. PERSONS
located inside the United States. The right of protected free speech, however, is not
unlimited and may not extend to some lawless action.

1.19.2 Exercise of Religion. The free exercise of religion covcrs any form of worship ofa
deity — even forms that are not widely known or practiced — as well as the right not to
worship any deity. Protected religious exercise also extends to dress that is worn or food
that is eaten for a religious purpose, attendance at a facility used for religious practice,
observance of the Sabbath, raising money for evangelical or missionary purposes, and
proselytizing.

1.19.3 Freedom of the Press. Freedom of the press includes such matters as reasonable
access to news-making events, the making of documentaries, and the posting of “blogs.”

 

'5 The First Amendment does not apply to non-U.S. PERSONS outside the United States. Before submitting nominations,
NOMINATORS may consult with their Department or Agency counsel to determine whether a specific person is a U.S.
PERSON and whether the questioned activity is entitled to First Amendment protection.

UNCLASSIFIED/lFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

Pagel 10

