 

xipuodd‘,‘

information relating to groups or individuals reasonably believed to be assisting or
associated with them.

S

(s) "Vulnerabilities information“ means all information relating to the
susceptibility — actual, perceived, or conceptual — of the United States. including any
portion, sector, population, geographic area, or industry, to terrorist attack.

(t) “Weapons of Mass Destruction information" or "WMD information"
means terrorism information or vulnerabilities information relating to conventional
explosive weapons and non-conventional weapons capable of causing mass casualties and
damage, including chemical or biological agents, radioactive or nuclear materials. and the
means to deliver them.

3. Policies and Procedures for Information Sharin Hand in and Use. Consistent
with the DHS Legislation, and except as otherwise speciﬁcally provided in this Agreement, the
following agreed-upon policies and procedures shall apply to the provision of covered
information by any covered entity to any other covered entity, to the interpretation of all
provisions of this Agreement, and to the resolution of all issues related to information sharing,
handling and use, and the coordination and deoonfliction of operations and analytic conclusions:

(a) Priority on Preemption. Prevention. and Disruption. All procedures,
guidelines, and mechanisms under this Agreement shall be designed and implemented,
and all determinations with regard to sharing information covered by this Agreement shall
be made, with the understood, overriding priority of preventing, preempting. and
disrupting terrorist threats to our homeland. The parties recognize and agree that, in some
cases. this priority shall dictate informatiOn sharing even where doing so may affect,
criminal prosecutions or ongoing law enforcement or intelligence operations.
Nonetheless, the covered entities shall act under this Agreement in a manner to protect, to
the greatest extent possible, these other signiﬁcant interests, including the pr0tection of
intelligence and sensitive law enforcement sources and methods, other classiﬁed
information. and sensitive Operational and prosecuton'al information.

(b) Reciprocity and Transparency. All information collected by any covered
entity relevant to the missions and responsibilities of any other covered entitiesshould be
shared, to the greatest extent possible, between and among all covered entities. Likewise,
the parties agree that, to the greatest extent possible, there should be transParency
between and among the covered entities with regard to their activrties to preempt,
prevent, and disrupt terrorist attacks against US. persons and interests. Except as
otherwise speciﬁed in this Agreement, or mandated by relevant Federal statutes or
Presidential Directives. procedures and mechanisms for information sharing, use, and
handling shall be interpreted and implemented consistently and reciprocally regardless of
the role a particular covered entity plays as a provider or recipient of covered information.
In other words, for example, international terrorism information collected by the Border
Patrol should be shared by DHS with the [C to the same extent foreign intelligence
information on terrorism is shared by the IC with DHS.

