(c) Scope of “Covered Information. " Consistent with the priority established
in Section 3(a). information relating to terrorism. Weapons of Mass Destruction,
vulnerabilities, or other functions of the Department of Homeland Security shall be
presumed to be “covered information" under this Agreement. If. after applying this
presumption. disagreement remains between covered entities about whether particular
information is “covered information." such disagreement shall be resolved pursuant to
Section 4(d).

(d) Eﬂ'ective date of information sharing obligations. Notwithstanding
provisions of this Agreement mandating further agreement on mechanisms, procedures.
or other issues, the parties recognize that the obligation to promptly begin the full 'range
of information sharing mandated by the DHS Legislation came into force on January 24,
2003, and that obligations under this Agreement will be in force llpon the signature of all
parties.

(e) Sharing Requirements Based on Substance Only. Consistent with the
DHS Legislation and other relevant statutory authorities. Presidential Directives. the
President's announced policies for protecting against terrorist threats to the homeland.
and this Agreement, the parties agree that this Agreement requires that covered
information. including, but not limited to. terrorism information. WMD information.
infrastructure, and vulnerabilities information. be provided by any covered entity that
collects or analyzes that information to any other covered entity that has a necd-to-know
that information (or information relating to that subject matter), based on a broad
interpretation of the mission of the other covered entity. regardless of:

(i) The type of communication in which the giformation is imam.
Covered information must be provided as required in this Agreement regardless of
the type of communication in which it is originally reported by the providing
agency. The fact that particular covered information may be contained originally
in a particular type of communication shall not, under any circumstances, be
grounds either to withhold or delay the sharing of any covered information. As
illustrative examples only, covered information must be provided by ClA, within
the time frames agreed to, whether such information is contained originally in
communications referred to as “T05.“ “intel cables.“ “ops cables," or any other
type of communication. Likewise, covered information must be provided by the
F B], within the time frames agreed to, whether such information is contained
originally in communications referred to as “3025,“ “ECs,“ “LHMs.” or any other
type of communication;

(ii) e manner in which the information is av be conveyed to the
intended agency or individual recipients. Covered entities shall continually
endeavor to improve technological means of access to afford maximum
flexibility, speed. and volume of information shared. consistent with the strictly
necessary protection of intelligence or sensitive law enforcement sources and
methods, and with section 3(3) and other relevant provisions of this Agreement.

 

J’
~—
t)
.....
L

g Xipll‘k

I.

 

