 

(f) Terrorist Threat Integration Center. The parties agree that. when fully
Operational. the Terrorist Threat Integration Center (TI'IC) shall be the preferred, though
not the exclusive, method for sharing covered. information at the national level.‘ TI'IC
information-sharing mechanisms and procedures shall be consistent with the DHS
Legislation and other relevant statutory authorities, Presidential Directives, the
President ‘s announced policies for protecting against terrorist threats to the homeland.
and this Agreement. As scan as practicable, the parties shall determine the extent to
which provision of information to one or more covered entities via the TTlC may
constitute the only required method for providing such information to such entities.
provided however, that any_decision to share covered information among the parties
solely by means of the TI'IC shall be memorialized in a separate written agreement
executed by the parties, including by designees of the oﬁ'icials signing this Agreement.
Analytic conclusions contained in TTIC products shall 'not be altered by agencies prior to
dissemination.

XlPUDLiLi\

S

(g) Policies for Sharing Particular nape: of Information With DHS.
Consistent with the DHS Legislation and other relevant statutory authorities, Presidential
Directives, the President's announced policies for protecting against terrorist threats to
the homeland, and this Agreement. the Secretary shall be provided access to all
information necessary for him to carry out the mission of the Department. Except as
otherwise directed by the President, the parties agree that the amount of information and
depth of detail of information provided to the Secretary. which will vary by the type of
information at issue, will be governed by the following policies:

(i) lnfggmatign Related to Threats of Terrorism Against the United
§tates. As required by the DHS Legislation. DHS shall be provided. without

request. all “reports (including information reports containing intelligence which
has not been fully evaluated). assessments. and analytical infomtation." The
parties understand that, in this category, except upon further request by-DHS. and
agreement by the originating entity, provided information will not routinely
include information, collected through intelligence sources or methods, or
sensitive law enforcement sources or methods. which has not been processed in
any way to reduce the amount of substantive content or synthesize the material.
Thus, for example, a recording of a conversation intercepted under the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) or an intelligence ofﬁcer’s or FBI agent's
hand-written notes of a discussion with a source would not be routinely provided
in this category. By contrast. a report forwarding the substance of a FISA-
recorded conversation, or an FBI "Electronic Communication" (EC). including the
substance of a discussion with a source, even if these include verbatim quotes
from the underlying notes. would be provided. ECs containing substantive
information, along with “3025,“ “TDs.” “HRS." and all other similar documents
including substantive information, fall into the category of information to be
provided. The parties agree, as soon as practicable. to identity and/or put into
place necessary and reasonable mechanisms, including, when operational. the
TTlC. along with the Joint Terrorism Task Forces (JTl'Fs). and procedures. to
ensure that DHS receives all such information automatically. under the policies

