and procedures agreed to in this Agreement, without further request.

(ii) Vulnerabilities lnfonngtion. As required by the DHS Legislation,
DHS shall be provided, without request, all information of any kind concerning
“the vulnerability of the infrastructure of the United States.‘ or other vulnerabilities
of the United States. to terrorism. whether or not such information has been
analyzed." The parties understand that, in this category, without further request
by DHS, provided information will routinely include information, collected
through intelligence sources or methods, or sensitive law enforcement sources or
methods. which has not been processed in any way to reduce the amount of
substantive content or synthesize the material. Provided information will include
all types of information, without regard to the distinctions drawn by way of. .
example in Section 3(g)(i), except as further agreed to by the parties or their
designees. The parties agree, as soon as practicable, to identify and/or put into
place necessary and reasonable mechanisms, including, when operational. the
TTlC. along with the JTTFs, and procedures. to ensure that DHS receives all such
information, under the principles agreed to in this Agreement, without further
request.

(iii) Information Relating to Signiﬁcant and Credible Threats of
fl errorism. As required by the DHS Legislation, DHS shall be provided, without

request, all information of any kind concerning “signiﬁcant and credible threats of
terrorism against the United States, whether or not such information has been
analyzed." The parties understand that, in this category. without further request
by DHS. provided information will routinely include information, collected
through intelligence sources or methods. or sensitive law enforcement sources or
methods, which has not been processed in any way to reduce the amount of
substantive content or synthesize the material. Provided information will include
all types of information, without regard to the distinctions drawn by way of
example in Section 3(g)(i). except as further agreed to by the panics or their
designees. The parties agree, as soon as practicable, to identify and/or put into
place necessary and reasonable mechanisms, including, when operational, the
TTlC, along with the JTTFs, and procedures, to ensure that DHS receives all such
information, under the principles agreed to in this Agreement, without further
request.

(iv) cher Information quugted by the Secretary. The Secretary shall

be provided, upon request, with such other information relating to threats of
terrorism against the United States or to other areas of DHS' responsibility,
whether or not such information has been analyzed. The parties understand that
DHS will be provided information in this category upon request including. if so
requested, information which has not been processed in any way to reduce the
amount of substantive content or synthesize the material. If so requested,
pr0vidcd information will include all types of information, without regard to the
distinctions drawn by way of example in Section 3(g)(i). except as otherwise
directed by the President. The parties agree. as soon as practicable, to set up

‘
>

 

'/
U
”'3

r.

3

C.

1/.

 

