 

necessary and reasonable mechanisms, including, when Operational, the TTlC,
along with the J'ITFs, and procedures, to ensure that DHS, when requested,
receives all such information, under the principles agreed to in this Agreement. .

(h) Timely Sharing of Information. Covered information must be provided to
those with a need-to-know that information (or information relating to that subject
matter), based on a broad interpretation of the mission of the other covered entity, as
quickly as possible. Providing all timely and relevant covered information to those who
have a need-to-know it in order to assist them in meeting their homeland security-related
responsibilities is fundamental to the success of the Department and all other efforts to
ensure the security of the homeland from terrorist attack. Delay in providing such
information risks frustrating efforts to meet these critical responsibilities and could result
in preventable attacks against U.S. persons or interests failing to be preempted, prevented,
or disrupted. Accordingly, except as otherwise directed by the President or agreed to by
all parties, the parties agree that:

(i) Information that a coVered entity reasonably believes relates to a
potential terrorism or WMD threat. to the United States homeland, its
infrastructure, or to United States persons or interests, shall be provided
immediately to other covered entities;

(ii) Other covered information, including, but not limited to,
vulnerabilities information, but which a covered entity does not reasonably
believe relates to a potential terrorism or WMD threat to the United States
homeland, its infrastructure, or to United States persons or interests, shall be
provided as expeditiously as possible;

(iii) Under no circumstances may covered information be withheld
from a covered entity with a need-to-know that information (or information
relating to that Subject matter), based on a broad interpretation of the mission of
the other covered entity. or may the sharing of such information be delayed
beyond the time frames agreed to in this Agreement. except as consistent with the
Section 4(d), or other relevant provisions of this Agreement;

(iv) When a question arises as to whether covered information must be
provided to the Department or any other covered entity pursuant to thisi
Agreement, the parties will resolve the question pursuant to Section 4(d);

(v) Covered entities agree to use, to the greatest extent possible, the
most rapid methods ot‘infonnation sharing, consistent with the strictly necessary
protection of intelligence or sensitive law enforcement sources and methods, and
with Section 3(a) and other relevant provisions of this Agreement; and

(vi) Consistent with Section 3, and other relevant provisions ot‘this
Agreement, the parties agree that they shall work diligently to ensure that all
covered entities receive the same information within the same time frame.

xipupdtl \‘

9

