 

\‘tpuadd‘c

Agreement. to withhold in its entirely a communication containing covered
information. such indication shall occur immediately.

9

(v) The parties agree that the provisions of this section shall\ not apply
to established source protection procedures utilized by ClA's Directorate of
Operations. or equivalent procedures developed and used by other covered
entities. provided that such procedures do not result in the failure to provide DHS
with substantive information as required under the DHS Legislation and this
Agreement. and that the Secretary may personally request revisions in such
procedures if he determines that they restrict DHS’ access to information in a way
that jeopardizes DHS‘ mission. For information described in Section 3(i)(i), such
procedures shall be revised. as soon as is practicable. and without request from the
Secretary. to ensure that those procedures'only remove such intelligence that
clearly identiﬁes, or would reasonably permit ready identiﬁcation of. intelligence
or sensitive law enforcement sources or methods that are particularly susceptible
to countermeasures that would nullify or measurably reduce their effectiveness.

0) Requests for Additional Information. In addition to the participation of
DHS in the "requirements“ processes. as discussed further herein. the DHS Legislation
provides for DHS to request additional or follow-up information upon receipt of
individual items of information. As soon as practicable, the parties shall agree .to
mechanisms and procedures, including the TTIC, JTTFs. and, if appropriate. focal pornts,
for DHS to make. and covered entities to respond to. such requests. These mechanisms
and procedures shall be designed to facilitate the greatest amount of additional
information sharing consistent with strictly necessary protection of intelligencqor
sensitive law enforcement sources and methods. with Section 3(a) and other relevant
provisions of this Agreement. and with the timeliest possible responses to requests for
additional information.

(k) Information Use Rcslrlctt'ons. In general. parties shall disclose covered
information free of any originator controls or information use restrictions. Several
categories of covered information that must be disclosed to covered entities pursuant to
the DHS Legislation. this Agreement. and other authorities. remain subject to special
labeling, handling, storage. use and access auditing requirements imposed by statute or. to
the extent consistent with the DHS Legislation. Presidential Directives. the President's
announced policies for protecting against terrorist threats to the homeland. and this
Agreement. pursuant to applicable regulations. The scope and duration of such
restrictions. including caveats restricting use of the disclosed information to a particular
level or element of a covered entity. will be tailored to address the particular situation or
subject matter involved. When imposed, use restrictions shall be no more restrictive than
strictly necessary to accomplish the desired effect.

(I) Secondary Information Sharing. To the extent consistent with this
Agreement. covered entities may share information provided by other covered entities
with additional covered entities. Such secondary sharing shall be carried out. to the
greatest extent possible. in a manner that permits the originating agency to know to

[0

