whom the information has been provided. The parties shall agree, as soon as is
practicable, upon recommendations, if any, for changes to Executive Order l2958,
Director of Central Intelligence Directive 6/6 (and complementary or successor directives
dealing with Originator Controls, the so-called “third agency rule," and other policies or
procedures governing the sharing of received information with additional recipients) in
order to comply with the DHS Legislation, and to can out the President's announced
policies for protecting against terrorist threats to the homeland, and the provisions ofthis
Agreement.

(m) Other Obligations to Share Information. A covered entity/s voluntary or
obligatory provision of covered information to another covered entity does not in itself
discharge or diminish any other obligation the-providing entity may have to provide that
information, or any part of it, to any other department, agency or other public or private
organization or individual under any statute, Presidential Directive, or other agreement.
Although all covered entities will attempt to identify and call attention to information
relevant to the mission of other covered entities, the responsibility to share information
relevant to the mission or responsibilities of any covered entity in addition to DHS
remains the responsibility of the originator or initial federal recipient of the information
and does not shift to DHS by virtue of DHS‘ receipt of the information. The parties
agree, however, that, to the greatest extent possible, other sharing obligations shall be
harmonized and coordinated with those covered by this Agreement, including the agreed
preference for using the TTlC and JTTFS as information-sharing mechanisms. in order to
reduce duplication, facilitate dcconfliction, and increase efficiency.

(n) PA TRIOT Act Information. Law enforcement-related information related
to DHS mission, permitted or required to be provided to intelligence agencies under the
PATRIOT Act and its implementing guidelines shall also be considered covered
information under this Agreement and shall, therefore. be provided to the Department and
other covered entities. in accordance with the DHS Legislation and other relevant
statutory provisions, and this Agreement.

(0) Other Intelligence Information. Nothing in this Agreement shall be read
to restrict the access of the Secretary or his designee to information the Secretary
ordinarily would receive as a member of the Intelligence Community, including national
security and foreign intelligence information.

(p) Information Sharing Mechanisms. As soon as practicable. the parties shall
agree upon specific mechanisms, consistent with Section 3 and other relevant provisions
of this Agreement, for how different types of covered information will be shared.
including technical and administrative arrangements. and, as appropriate, designation of
focal points, to maximize the effectiveness and coordination for providing covered
in formation. Subsequent arrangements for information sharing may he reached upon the
approval of the parties or their designees. The parties shall work to develop. as part of
this process, effective mechanisms for covered entities to identify covered information
held by them and to ensure, to the greatest degree feasible, the provision of such
information. without specific request, to other covered entities. The parties further agree

 

untidy

.P

Q

 

