 

that. notwithstanding their agreement to develop further mechanisms and procedures for
information sharing. covered entities shall promptly build on mechanisms and procedures
already in place to identity and provide to OHS covered information that is generated or
received by them in the course of carrying out their missions.

XiPUQdLiV'

S

(q) Methods of Providing Information. The parties recognize and agree that
there are many possible methods for “providing“ information. including| but not limited
to. hand-delivery. oral brieﬁngs. transmission by secure data-link. and affording routine
and unrestricted access to computerized databases. including the ability to transfer such
information to a recipient entity as necessary. and by full and complete oo-location of
analysts or other personnel and full integration of. and access to. information, as well as.
for example. ensuing that the Secretary receives all daily threat brieﬁng materials
(including threat matrices and overnight reports). The parties further agree that
requirements to “provide“ information under this Agreement may be satisﬁed. depending
on the type of information at issue. by the use of a single mechanism. such as via the
TTiC. consistent with section 3(f) of this Agreement. or a combination of mechanisms
already in place and/or created under this Agreement. The parties shall agree. as part of
the development of these mechanisms and procedures. as to which method. or
combination of methods. of providing information will be suflicrent for particular types
or categories of information.

(r) Raponsible Oﬂicial: for Information Sharing. Until such time as
modiﬁed by the parties. the responsible officials tor information sharing under this
Agreement are as follows:

(i) For the Secretary of Homeland Security. the Undersecretary for
information Analysis and infrastructure Protection, or another individual
designated by the Secretary to act in this capacity;

(ii) For the Attorney General. Executive Assnstant Director for
Counterterrorism and Counterintelligence; and

(iii) For the Director of Central intelligence. the Associate Director of
Central intelligence for Homeland Security.

(5) Provision of Covered Information to the DHS Directorate of Information
Analysis and Infrastructure Protection, Until further agreement by the parties. or their
designees. all covered information provided. including information provided. under
current procedures. to existing elements transferred to DHS. e.g.. the United States Coast
Guard and the (5.5. Customs Service. shall also be separately provided to the Directorate
of information Analysis and infrastructure Protection. including. if agreed by the
Secretary. via the Ti'iC. The Undersecretary for infomiation Analysrs and infrastructure
Protection. or another individual designated by the Secretary to act in this capacity. shall
work with entities not within the Directorate to ensure effective coordination of
information.

