____.,

(t) Classiﬁed Information. The head of each covered entity shall put
procedures in place to ensure that each individual recipient of classiﬁed information has. .
and maintains, appropriate security clearances, training, and need-to-know to receive
classiﬁed information at the level at which the recipient will receive such information.

Individuals shall be designated at each covered entity at several levels of seniority to
receive classiﬁed information judged by the originating agency to be sufﬁciently
sensitive to require limited distribution. In rare cases, the parties expect that extremely
sensitive information may be provided only to the Secretary or, as appropriate, the head
of another covered entity. The head of each covered entity also shall ensure that all
mechanisms and procedures for receiving, storing, and handling classified information
meet established legal and regulatory standards. The policies and procedures governing
access to covered information under this Agreement, including such information that is
classiﬁed, shall apply without regard to whether that information is made available in
written, oral, or electronic form, or to the means or mechanism by which it is
communicated to the recipient.

USLUV

-\'!P

Ur

(u) Thresholds. In order to ensure that the Department is provided with all
information necessary to carry out its responsibilities, but is not inundated with
unmanageable volumes of information below thresholds reasonable to perform its
mission, as soon as practicable, the Secretary shall advise the other parties, Individually
or collectively, as to establishing additional thresholds for information sharing, consistent
with the DHS Legislation. For example, the Secretary may determine that low-level
information concerning purely indigenous foreign terrorist groups with no apparent
capability to mount operations against the United States is not relevant to DHS' mission. .
Such further agreement shall be consistent with the DHS Legislation and other relevant
statutory authorities, Presidential Directives, the President‘s announced policies for
protecting against terrorist threats to the homeland, and this Agreement. At any time
following such initial agreement, the parties may agree to additional information sharing.
or to more or less restrictive thresholds, as the volume of information involved and the
needs of DHS become clearer, so long as such agreements are consistent with the DHS
Legislation and this Agreement. Such agreements may be made by desigrrees of the
parties.

(v) Privacy. All information sharing pursuant to this Agreement shall be
consistent with applicable privacy laws.

4. Coordination, Dcconﬂiction, and Dispute Resolution.

(a) Coordination and Deconﬂt'cu‘on Policy. Consistent with the President‘s
direction that our highest priority is the protection of the American people from
potentially devastating terrorist attacks. covered entities shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that terrorist threats to our homeland are addressed c00peratively, efﬁciently,
and with the understood overriding purpose of preventing, preempting, and disnrpting
those threats. To that end, the parties agree that no homeland security-related prevention,
preemption. or disruption activity of any covered entity shall be presumed to be the best
Option in any given case. or otherwise deemed of higher precedence. importance. or .

 

