 

priority than any other such activity. The covered entities shall work together, io the
greatest extent possible, to achieve, in each case, the maximum preventative, preemptive,
and disruptive effect on potential threats, including coordinating simultaneous and
complementary activities of multiple covered entities when apprOpn'ate. Because the
failure to coordinate operational activities to preempt, prevent, and disrupt terrorist
threats can create confusion, inefficiency and, in extreme cases, dangerous situations
resulting from conflicting operational activities, the parties agree to coordinate,
operational activities to the greatest possible extent. Specifically, each party shall take all
reasonable steps to ensure coordination and deconfliction of homeland security-related
law enforcement, intelligence or national security-related activities of covered entities
under that party‘s.authon'ty with such activities of other covered entities.

\‘ipuaddy

S

(b) Analytic Conclusions and Supporting Information. Terrorism and other
homeland-security related analytic efforts of all covered entities must be informed by the
most comprehensive, accurate, and timely information available, regardless of its nature
and source, including, but not limited to, terrorism, WMD, vulnerabilities, and .other
pertinent information available to any covered entity. Analytic conclusions relating to
terrorist or WMD threats to the homeland, or other issues within the responsibility of
OHS, including information updating and amplifying previous conclusions, must be
shared with all covered entities as soon as they are produced. Preemptive, preventative,
and disruptive actions by all covered entities must be informed to the greatest extent
possible by all available information and by all analytic conclusi0ns, includinchmpeting
conclusions, of all entities with relevant analytic responsibilities. At the same time, the
Federal govetrunent must, to the greatest extent possible, Speak with one voice to state
and local oﬁicials, private industry, and the public, in order to prevent confusion, mixed
signals, and. potentially, dangerous operational conﬂicts. ln furtherance of these goals,
the parties agree as follows:

(i) The parties shall ensure that covered entities disseminate their
terrorism or other homeland security-related analytic products without delay to
other covered entities that have related interests and responsibilities;

(ii) Except as otherwise provided in Sections 4(b)(iii) or (iv), no
analytic conclusions, as deﬁned in Section 2(a) of this Agreement, of any covered
entity shall be disseminated to state, local, or private sector ofﬁcials, or to the
public, without the prior approval of the Secretary of Homeland Security, his
designee, or in accordance with approval mechanisms, potentially including the
TTlC or the JTTFs, established by the Secretary after the date of this Agreement.

‘ (iii) Analytic conclusions may be provided directly to such officials or
to the public where the head of a covered entity or his or her designee reasonably
determines that exigent circumstances exist such that providing an analytic
concluSIon prior to required approval is necessary to prevent. preempt, or disrupt
an imminent threat of death or serious bodily injury or significant damage to US.
infrastructure or other interests. In the event an analytic conclusion is
disseminated pursuant to the exigent circumstances exception in this paragraph,

