UNCLASSIFIED/lFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

I20

I. l9.4 Freedom of Peaceful Assembly. Freedom of peaceful assembly, often called the
right to freedom of association, includes gathering with others to protest government
action, or to rally or demonstrate in favor of, or in opposition to, a social cause. The
right to peaceful assembly includes more than just public demonstrations - it includes,
as well, the posting of group websites on the Internet, recruiting others to a lawful cause,
marketing a message, and fundraising, which all are protected First Amendment
activities ifthey are conducted in support ofan organizational, political, religious, or
social cause.

l.l9.5 Petition the Government for Redress of Grievances. The right to petition the
government for redress of grievances includes, for example, writing letters to Congress,
carrying a placard outside the city hall that delivers a political message, recruiting others
to one’s cause, and lobbying Congress or an Executive Agency for a particular result.

Equal Protection. The Equal Protection Clause of the US. Constitution provides in part that:
“No State shall make or enforce any law which shall deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.” The US. Supreme Court has made it clear that
this applies as well to the official acts of US. Government personnel. Nominations, therefore,
shall not be based solely on race, ethnicity, national origin, or religious affiliation. Any
activities relating to this Guidance that are based solely on such considerations are invidious
by definition, and therefore, unconstitutional.

IV. WATCHLISTING POLICIES

I2]

I22

Watchlisting Disclosures. The general policy of the US. Government is to neither confirm
nor deny an individual’s watchlist status. In addition to the provisions in Addendum B to the
TSC MOU, which require NOMINATOR approval before TSDB information can be used in any
process that might result in public disclosure, the 2007 Memorandum of Understanding on

T errorisl Walehlisl Redress Procedures (Redress MOU) '6 requires SCREENERS to contact the
TSC if it receives a request for information or records that might reveal an individual’s
watchlist status. Approval would also be required from any entity which provided
information used by a NOMINATOR during a nomination. Per the Redress MOU, ORIGINATING
and NOMINATlNG AGENCIES are obligated to support SCREENER determinations — both at the
administrative level and in litigation — and provide appropriate information, including
unclassiﬁed substitutes as necessary. TSC, in conjunction with NCTC, the NOMINATORS, and
the Department of Justice (DOJ), as appropriate, will ensure that representations regarding an
individual’s potential watchlist status are properly coordinated and approved.

Legal or Use Restrictions. Because information in the TSDB comes overwhelmingly from
intelligence sources and methods or sensitive law enforcement techniques, Paragraph l2 of

 

‘6 See Appendix 8, Redress MOU.

UNCLASSIFIED/lFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

Page| ll

