 

the Secretary and other covered entities shall be notified immediately of the
dissemination. .

J’
*3
“'3

ﬂy

3

C.

Li.

(iv) Analytic conclusions may be shared with federal, state. and local
law enforcement officials without the prior approval of the Secretary of
Homeland Security. provided, however, that it is the intention of the parties that
DHS be provided with the earliest possible advance notice of the potential of such
communications and, where possible, DHS will be included in the development of
the communications through the DHS liaisons at FBI Headquarters. The
Secretary of Homeland Security, or his designer: (including a DHS representative
to a J'ITF if designated by the Secretary to do so), must approve further
dissemination of such analytic conclusions to other non-law enforcement state and
local officials or to the public.

(v) Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent covered entities from
coordinating on analytic conclusions with. or seeking the views of. other Federal

Government entities in evaluating terrorism or other homeland-security-related
information.

(c) Establishment of Mechanisms for Operational Coordination and
Deconﬂiction. As soon as practicable, the parties shall agree upon speciﬁc mechanisms,
including technical, administrative, and, as appropriate, designation of focal points, to
maximize the eﬁectiveness of operational coordination and deconlliction. These will ,
cover both overseas and domestic operations related to homeland security. Subsequent .
agreements for operational coordination and deeonﬂiction may be reached upon the
approval of the parties or their designees.

(d) Information Sharing Dispute Resolution. Consistent with the DHS
Legislation and other relevant statutory authorities. Presidential Directives, the
President‘s ann0unced policies for protecting against terrorist threats to the homeland, the
obligation to protect intelligence or sensitive law enforcement sources and methods from
unauthorized disclosure, and with Section 3(a). and other relevant sections of this
Agreement, issues concerning the application of the terms of this Agreement in any
speciﬁc context with respect to whether particular covered information should be
provided to the Department or to any other covered entity shall be handled under the
following procedures:

(i) A holder of particular covered information at issue, whether within
or outside the entity originating that information, shall refer the matter by the most
expeditious means to the head of the entity originating the information (or
that official's designee) for expeditious review.

(ii) The reviewing ofﬁcial shall, without exception. render a definitive
decision on the request within 24 hours of receiving the referral and, in light of
the access provisions in the DHS Legislation, shall resolve any doubt in favor of .

>

 

