providing the requested information.

. (iii) If the originating agency's reviewing ofﬁcial declines to provide
the covered information requested. that officral shall, within the 24 hours allotted
for response, provide the Department or other covered with —-

(A) the fact that the speciﬁc information is being withheld;

(B) a succinct and Speciﬁc statement of the reasons for the
withholding; and

(C) as much of the information requested as the head of the
originating agency (or that ofﬁcial‘s designee) reasonably concludes can
be provided given the President‘s announced policies for protecting
against terrorist threats to the homeland. the DHS Legislation and other
relevant statutory authorities, and relevant Presidential Directives.

(iv) If, at that point, a compromise is not reached expeditiously, the
diSpute will be resolved either by the Secretary. Attorney General, and DCl by
mutual decision or through referral to the Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs and Assistant to the President for Homeland Security Affairs. or
their designees, for resolution. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement, the Attorney General, Secretary, or DC], or their deputies may.
whenever any of them deems it necessary or advisable (particularly when a
fundamental matter of policy is implicated or time is of the essence), intervene to

. raise and resolve any issue of access to covered information by mutual decision or
through the National Security Council and/or Homeland Security Council system.

(e) NSPD—8. Nothing in this Agreement in any way affects the
responsibilities and authorities for coordination of United States counter-terrorism
activities established in National Security Presidential Directive (NSPD) 8.

5. Protection of Intelligence and Sensitive Law Enforcement urces and Methods.
The parties intend that all provisions of this Agreement be interpreted consistently with the DCl's
statutory responsibility to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure
and with similar responsibilities of the Attorney General and the Secretary to protect sensitive
law enforcement sources and methods, with the DHS Legislation and other relevant statutory
authorities, Presidential Directives. the President‘s announced policies for protecting against
terrorist threats to the homeland, and with Section 3(a), and other relevant provisions of this
Agreement. Consistent with this agreed~upon interpretation:

(a) The DC] shall carry out his reSponsibilities for the protection of
intelligence sources and methods, and the Secretary and Attorney General shall carry out
analogous reSponsibilities for sensitive law enforcement sources and methods, in a
manner. and through mechanisms. that ensure that all c0vered information is made
available promptly to the Department. and to other covered entities with a necd-to-know
and proper security clearances and handling procedures in place, subject only to such
. handling and use restrictions as are strictly and unavoidably necessary to protect

 

xgpuojdv

S

