intelligence and sensitive law enforcement sources and methods from unauthorized
disclosure.

(i) The DC] shall ensure that the substance of all covered information
relevant to the responsibilities of all covered entities is provided to those entities
in a form suited to their effective use of that information. consistent with the
DCl‘s obligation to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized
disclosure and Section 3(a) of this Agreement. The Secretary and the Attorney
General shall similarly ensure that the substance of covered information is
provided in a suitable form.

(ii) The DC! shall ensure that dissemination of classified reporting
baSed. wholly or in part. on covered information, is accompanied by dissemination
ofas much of that reporting and covered information as is possible at an
unclassiﬁed (which may. when necessaryI be marked 'Sensitive-but-Unclassified"
or "SBU') or reduced classiﬁcation level, in order to ensure the broadest possible
availability and use of covered information by those with a need-to-know that
information (or information relating to that subject matter), based on a broad
interpretation of the mission of the other covered entity.: The Secretary and the
Attorney General shall similarly ensure that dissemination is done in a manner
that ensures the broadest possible availability.

(1)) Information may be redacted or put into a tailored product to the extent
consistent with Section 3(i) of this Agreement.

(c) Nothing in this section relieves any member of the Intelligence
Community that originates covered information from its obligation to provide that
information to DHS and other covered entities. as appropriate. in a form consistent with
this Agreement. the DHS Legislation. and other relevant statutes and authorities
regarding the protection of sources and methods.

6. "Sanitization' and Modiﬁcation of Classiﬁcation Levels for Further Sharing by DHS.

(a) Consistent with the President's announced policies, our national priorities.
including this section. Section 3(3). and other relevant provisions of this Agreement, the
DHS Legislation and other relevant statutes and Presidential Directives, covered entities
that originate covered information that is classiﬁed shall retain the authority to determine
whether that information. or any portions thereof. must remain classified in the interest of
national security.

(i) Covered entities shall ensure that covered information that is
classiﬁed or otherwise subject to restricted dissemination, but which reasomably
appears likely to require onward passage to state. local. or private sector ofﬁcials.
the public. or other law enforcement ofﬁcials for use in a criminal investigation.
reaches DHS promptly with accompanying high-content “tear lines“ suitable for
onward passage at an unclassiﬁed lcvel. Until this can be achieved

I?

L 3LlLl\" I

9w”

.

 

