 

simultaneously to the transmission of covered information. the developrnent of
such tearlines shall not delay the provision of covered information.

\"lpllPLjd‘V

9

(ii) The parties shall ensure. to the greatest extent posSible. that
covered entities utilize agreed-upon standardized formatting for preparation of
tear-line material for passage to state. local. or private sector oﬂicials. including
state and local law enforcement ofﬁcials for use in a law enforcement
investigation. or to the public, with the goal of providing necessary substantive
information. but not enabling recipients to determine the originator. within the
Federal govemment. of the information.

(b) DHS may. on its own initiative or at the reque5t of a homeland security
ofﬁcial to whom covered information is disseminated. ask that the originating agency
dcclaSSify or ieduce the classiﬁcation level attached to that information in order to permit
dissemination to additional officials who have a need-to-know the information. to
promote ease of handling by those authorized to review it. to permit its incorporation into
a document that is unclassiﬁed or classiﬁed at a lower level. or for other purposes
consistent with the need promptly to provide homeland security officials with all relevant
covered information that they have a need-to-know in the conduct of their official duties.
Whenever it receives such a request. the originating agency shall respond to DHS. within
24 hours tor such longer period as is agreed to by all parties). unless compelling
circumstances exist to require a longer response time. Such response will either -

(i) agree to declassify or reduce the classiﬁcation ‘ievel of the c0vered
information in question as requested: 0r

(ii) prOVide an alternative formulation responsive to the requester's
need for additional information sharing. but without declassiiying or reducing the
classiﬁcation of the original document or covered information where that cannm
be done consistent with assuring the national security.

(c) Where the need by DHS for further dissemination of classiﬁed
information received from other covered entities. including through declassification or
the preparation of unclassified tear-lines. is urgent because that information contains or
may contain terrorist threat indications critical to the ability of homeland security
ofﬁcials to prevent. preempt. or disrupt a possible terrorist attack. that information may
be passed directly to the entity or ofﬁcial that has a need-to-know that information.
prowdcd (ha! the covered entity passing the information ﬁrst notiﬁes the originating
agency and takes steps reasonable under the exigent circumstances to protect whatever
classiﬁed infomia'iiou Is not essential to initiating the urgent homeland security asSurance
measures that may be required.

(d) The parties agree to develop together. as soon as practicable. mechanisms
and procedures. including through the use of detailees and assignees to the TTlC and
.lTl'Fs. as appropriate. to carry out the provisions of Section 6. The parties agree to work

