together to ensure that the administrative. ﬁnancial. and personnel burdens of this section
are shared to the greatest extent possible among covered entities.

7. Detail or Asimmgm of Personn_e]_. To facilitate the information sharing.
coordination. and deconﬂiction policies covered in this Agreement. covered entities shall detail.
and/or assign. to the greatest extent possible. including to the TTIC and/or .ITTFs. personnel who
have the authority either to make classification review and redaction decisions themSeives. or.
consistent with the time frames established in this Agreement. to refer those decrsions to the
appropriate officials at the originating agency for prompt action.

8. DHS Partieipgtion in Requirements Processes. As soon as practicable. the parties
shall modify existing mechanisms and processes for prioritization ofterrorism. WMD and other

relevant foreign intelligence collection (including within the United States) and requirements
processes to ensure that DHS has meaningful participation at each stage and level of each such
mechanism or process. including through participation in the TTIC. The parties also shall work
together to provide recommendations as to whether. and how. processes or mechanisms for
purely "domestic" terrorism (e.g.. concerning the capabilities. plans and intentions of exclusively
domestic white supremacrst or militia groups). and other relevant intelligence collection should
be created or. alternatively. how to ensure meaningful participation by DHS in the prioritization
for gathering such information. This section does not refer to operational activrties

9. Databases. The parties agree to establish procedures and mechanisms to provide
DHS. and. as appropnate and practicable. other covered entities. with access to databases
containing covered information. To this end. the parties shall establish a working group. within
30 days of the date of this Agreement. Developed procedures and mechanisms. including
through the use of the TTIC and/or JTTFs. should be consistent with the DHS Legislation and
other relevant statutory authorities. Presidential Directives. the President‘s announced policies
for protecting against terrorist threats to the homeland. and the appropriate needs for access by
DHS to appropriate databases. as well as with the protection of intelligence or sensitive law
enforcement sources and methods. and with Section 3(3) and other provisions of this Agreement
Such procedures and mechanisms should facilitate. to the greatest possible extent: ease and
speed of information exchange; differentiated access. to allow individuals with different levels of
security clearance and need-to-know to have different levels of access to databases; and
compatibility with other databases ofcovered entities.

l0. Statement 0 e t Concemin In Ill . It is the intent ofthe
parties to build and modernize all relevant databases and other information technology systems
in order to maximize compatibility with other systems with which they must interact. Such
procedures and mechanisms also must comply with existing statutory and Presidential
Directives. including with regard to the protection of classiﬁed int'onnation and applicable
privacy protections

l l. Handling and Storage. The parties shall ensure that c0vcred entities within their
jurisdiction observe the established handling and storage standards appropriate to the
classiﬁcation and access restrictions indicated on covered information they receive. use. and

Q

 

.PUQLikiV

 

