t) \tptmtld\,~

Executive Order [3388 of October 25, 2005

Further Strengthening the Sharing of Terrorism Information to Protect Americans

lly the authority vested in me as President bv the Constitution and the laws of the United States

of America. including w. 'I.-- ' .H " ofthe Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of

200-) (Public Law 108-458). and in order to further strengthen the effective conduct ofl'nited

States counterterrorism activities and protect the territory. people. and interests of the United

States of America. including against terrorist attacks. it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1. Policy. To the maximum extent consistent with applicable law. agencies shall. in the

design and use of information systems and in the dissemination of information among agencies:
(a) give the highest priority to (i) the detection. prevention. disruption.
preemption. and mitigation of the effects of terrorist activities against the
territory. people. and interests of the United States of America: (ii) the
interchange of terrorism information among agencies; (iii) the interchange of
terrorism information between agencies and appropriate authorities of State. local.
and tribal governments. and between agencies and appropriate private sector
entities: and (iv) the protection ofthe ability of agencies to acquire additional
such information: and
(b) protect the freedom. information privacy. and other legal rights ofAmericans
in the conduct ofactivities implementing subsection (a).

See. 2. Duties of Heads of Agencies Possessing or Acquiring 'I'errorism Information. To

implement the policy set forth in section I of this order. the head of each agency that possesses

or acquires terrorism information:
(a) shall promptly give access to the terrorism information to the head of each
other agency that has counterterrorism functions. and provide the terrorism
information to each such agency. unless otherwise directed by the President. and
consistent with (i) the statutory responsibilities of the agencies providing and
reeeixing the information: (ii) any guidance issued by the Attorney (ieneral to
fulfil! the policy set forth in subsection l(b) of this order: and (iii) other applicable
law. including sections lﬂZAtg) and (iiofthe National Security Act of 1947.
section 1016 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act onOO-I
(inclading any policies. procedures. guidelines. rules. and standards issued
pursuant thereto). sections 202 and 802 ofthe Homeland Security Act of20()2.
ExecutiVe Order 12958 of April 17. 1995. as amended. and Iixecutive ( )rder
I33] I ofJuly 2‘). 2003: and
(b) shall cooperate in and facilitate production of reports based on terrorism
information with contents and formats that permit dissemination that maximizes
the utility of the information in protecting the territory. people. and interests ofthe
United States.

See. 3. Preparing Terrorism Information for Maximum Distribution. To assist in expeditious and

effective implementation by agencies ofthe policy set forth in section I of this order. the

Page I oI'3

