o \Ipttat‘ldvv

common standards :or the sharing of terrorism information established pursuant to section 3 of
of August 27. 2004. shall he used. as appropriate. in earning out
of the Intelligence Reform and 'I'errorism Prevention Act of 2004.
See. -I. Requirements for Collection of'l'errorism Infonnation Inside the United States. To assist
in expeditious and effective implementation by agencies ofthe policy set forth in section I of
this order. the recommendations regarding the establishment ofcxecutivc branch-wide collection
and sharing requirements. procedures. and guidelines for terrorism information collected within
the United States made pursuant to section 4 of Executive Order l3356 shall be used. as
appropriate. in carrying out .- -- . .. ofthe Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention
Act of 2004.
Sec. 5. Establishment and Functions of Information Sharing Council.
(a) Consistent with section lttl6(g) ofthe Intelligence Reform and Terrorism
Prevention Act onftO-l. there is hereby established an Infomiation Sharing
Council (Council). chaired by the Program Manager to whom section ll')l() of
such Act refers. and composed exclusively ofdcsignees of: the Secretaries of
State. the Treasury. Defense. Commerce. Energy. and Homeland Security: the
Attorney General: the Director ofNational Intelligence: the Director ofthe
C cntral Intelligence Agency: the Director ofthe Ofﬁce of Management and
Budget: the Director of the liederal Bureau of Investigation: the Director of the
National Counterterrorism Center: and such other heads of departments or
agencies as the Director of National Intelligence may designate.
tb) The mission of the Council is to ti) provide advice and information conceming
the establishment of an interoperable terrorism information sharing environment
to facilitate automated sharing of terrorism information among appropriate
agencies to implement the policy set forth in section I ofthis order: and (ii)
perform the duties set forth in section l0l6( g) of the Intelligence Reform and
ferrorism Prevention Act of 2004.
(c) To assist in expeditious and effective implementation by agencies of the policy
set forth in section I ofthis order. the plan for establishment ofa proposed
interoperable terrorism information sharing environment reported under section
5(c) of Executive Order l3356 shall be used. as appropriate. in carrying out
ofthe Intelligence Refomt and Terrorism Prevention Act onOO-I.
See. 6. Definitions. As used in this order:
ta) the term "agency" has the meaning set forth for the temt "executive agency" in
section “)5 oftitlc 5. L'nitcd States ('odc. together with the Department of
Homeland Security. but includes the Postal Rate Commission and the L'nited
States Postal Service and excludes the Government Accountability Office: and
(b) the term "terrorism information" has the meaning set forth for such term in
section l0l6(a)(-l) ofthe Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of
2004
See. 7. General l’ro‘. isions.
(a) 'l his order:
(it shall be implemented in a manner consistent with applicable law.
including I-‘ederal la“ protecting the information privacy and other legal
rights of Americans. and subicct to the availability ofappropriations;

Page 2 of}

