/_ xipuaddv

Department ofJustice Protocol Regarding 'l'errorist Nominations

”if” tlDtiite of the “Bounty Qttorncy (Ii-'iriicial
‘ '3‘ -.4 ~ 3Dnltnnuton.19.t5.20530
. ' .‘ -' October 3, letlll

MEMORANDUM FOR HEADS 0]" DEPARTMENT COMPONENTS

From: The Deputy Attorney General
Subject: Department of.lusticc l’rotocul Regarding 'l'errorist Watchlisl Nominations

The attached protoeol reflects a new policy for the Department's internal process lor
nominating individuals for the 'l'errorist Screening Database ('l'Sl)U).

'l'he TSDB consolidates the US. Government‘s terrorism screening and lookout databases
into a single integrated identities database. The TSDB is also known as the "watehlist."
This protocol is designed to ensure consistent and appropriate handling of watchlist

in lbrmation. The protocol responds to issues raised by the report ol‘thc Inspector
General, dated March I4, 2008. entitled “Audit ofthe ”.8. Department ofJustice
Terrorist Watehlist Nomination Processes." Speciﬁcally. that report recommended that
the Departmen; adopt a general policy for submission ol‘ watch list nominations.
lmplementation of the attached protocol will accomplish that task.

All components are directed to comply with this protocol effective immediately.

DEPAR'I'MEN'!" OI" .lUS'l lCli PROTOCOL
Rl.-‘.GARDING 'l‘lERRORIS'l' WA'l'Cl ll.lS'l‘ NOMINATIONS

A. Background

I. On September HS. 2003. the President directed the Attorney General in Homeland
Security Presidential Directive 6 (HSl’D-(n) to "establish an organimtion to consolidate
the Government's approach to terrorism screening and provide for the appropriate and
lawful use of“; errorist In formation in screening processes." 'l‘crrorist Information was
speciﬁcally deﬁned to mean "individuals known or appropriately suspected to be or have
been engaged in conduct constituting. in preparation for. in aid of. or related to
terrorism."

2. Concurrent with the signing of l lSl’D-O, the A'Iumorumlmu of llmlerslmuling DH I/u'

Inmgr‘rtliuu and Use uj Screening lulbrmuliun to Prince! rigours! Terrorism ('I‘SC Mt )U),
was Signed by the Secretaries of State and Homeland Security. the Attorney General and

Page l of 5

