Page _‘

puntldv

the Director ol'Ccntral Intelligence (DCI) (on hehall'ol'the entire LLS. Intelligence
t'mnmunity). 'l‘he 'I‘SC MOU established the 'l'crrorist Screening (‘enter ('l‘SC'I to
consolidate the (iovermnent's approach to terrorism screening and provide for the
apprepriate and lawful use ol'Terrorist lnlbrmation. a term clariﬁed by the inclusion of
‘l'ertorist Identifiers in a suhsequent agreement ot'the parties. llnder l-lSl’l.)-(i. the 'I‘St'
was to develop and maintain a database. to the extent permitted by law. containing the
most thorough. accurate. and current information possible about known or suspected
terrorists. llSl’lLt: requires that its implementation he consistent with the ( Tonstitution
and applicable laws. including those protecting the rights ot'all Americans. The 'l'S‘C'
created the 'l'ez'rorist Screening Database (TSUU) to meet these goals. the TSDU
consolidates th: L'.S. Government's terrorism screening and lookout databases into a
single integrand identities database. 'lhe T80” is aiso knoun as the "watehlist."

;’_-\'l

3. The | SC MOU also incorporated all provisions ol'the -\l('luurumltlm u/"Ifruit-rxmmling
iron-Tun (In: Intelligence Cmmmmily. Federal law [En/m" elm-m .'“.'('III'H'\‘, .lm/ the
.’)r'/Iurmu'm uj'llmmtlund Security (.‘um‘ermrre Inﬁnwmlmn .S'Imrnnz. dated March -l. was
ttlte "lnlormativn “Sharing MOU").

4. In .100 l. the Secretaries ol'State. 'l’reasury. and Defense became signatories to the
intivrmation Sharing M0” by signing Addendum A to the 'l'SC MOl I. lly doing so. they
agreed that all provisions ofthe 'l’SC? MOU and tire Information Sharing MUl- apply to
all entities that are or become a part ol'their respective Departments.

5. -\ second addendum (Addendum B). which supplements and incorporates by retercnee
all provisions --l'the 'l'SC MOU, superseded Addendum A and was finalized on January
l8. 2007. The Directors ol'Nationnl Intelligence. N(TT('. and the TSC joined as
signatories in Addendum l3. llnrler paragraph (3) (h) ol'Addendum I] the Parties agreed.
In the maximun: extent permitted by law. to ”provide to the N("'l'(' on an ongoing basis
all 'l'errorisnt lnlbrmation (as defined in

the Intelligene: Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act (lR'l'l’A) ol'ZtltM. Section l()l6(a)
H) [as amended to include homeland security information and weapons ol'mass
destruction information] in their possession. custody, or control. Paragraph 7 ol
Addendum l-l introduces the term Terrorist ldentiliersto more. clearly describe ”M: type of
terrorism intornuttion that NC‘TC (and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) fur
l’urely Domestic 'l'errorism Information, as deﬁned in the 'l‘SC MOI!) receives from
interageney partners and subsequently shares with 'I'SC for inclusion in the 'rsnn.

(i. l-xectttivc ()rder I3354 (August 27. 2004) created the National (.‘uunterterrorism
(Tentet (Nt‘TC) to serve as the primary organization in the United States Government tor
analyzing and ntegrating all intelligence possessed or acquired by the United States
(Em-eminent pcnaining to terrorism and eountertcrrorism. excepting purely domestic
cumneiterrorisai information. That same provision. however. provides that N("l'(‘ may
receive. re ain. and disseminate inlormation from anv Federal. State. or local unvetntnent.
t‘t other source necessary to fulﬁll its responsibilities. giving NCI L' authorityao receive.
r.-tair.. and disseminate domestic. terrorism inliarmatiun.

Il'

