7. Section l02l of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act ol'ZOtM
th'l‘l’A) amended the National Security Act of I947 to codify the creation ol'NC’I'C.
Pursuant to lR’l'l’A. NC'I‘C serves "as the central and shared knowledge bank on known
and suspected terrorists and international terror groups." NCTC's centralized knowledge
bank is known as the 'l‘errorist Identities Datarnart Environment ('l‘lDli). Section “)2 l (e)
on Domestic Counterterrorism Intelligence states Nf'TC "may, consistent with applicable
law. the direction of the President. and guidelines referred to in section lt)2A(b). receive
intelligence pertaining eselusively to domestic eounterterrorism from any Federal. State.
or local government or other source necessary to fulfill its responsibilities and retain and
disseminate such intelligence."

8. To enhance intormation sharing, the President issued Executive Order l3388. Farmer
SIrerr;.;I/runing Ilrc Sharing nf'l‘errm'mm Information In Pronto! Americans (October 25.
2005‘}, which requires the head of each agency that possesses or acquires terrorism
information to promptly give access to that information to the head ol'eaeh other agency
that has countertcrrorisnl functions.

U Pursuant to paragraph (2) of l-iSl’D-o, NtI'l'C‘. is mandated to "provide ['l‘S(I| with
access to all appropriate information or intelligence in the [NC l‘C's| custody, possessmn.
or control that TSCI requires to perform its functions."

It). TlDl-L serves as the single source for the ’l'SDB, except for Purely Domestic 'l'errorism
lnlbrmation. which is pmvided directly to the 'I'SC. from the Hit via a tormalizcd
procedure. l’urely Domestic Terrorism Information is defined in the TSC MOU as "La,
intormation about US. persons that has been determined to be purely domestic terrorism
information with no link to foreign intelligence, eounterintclligence, or international
terrorism."

l l. ‘l'lDli contains the identifying and derogatory information on known or appropriatety
suspected international terrorists and the FBI's Automated Case Support system contains
supporting inlormation regarding purely domestic terrorists. The TSDI) contains the
identifiers exported from 'l‘lDli and the identitiers ol'domcstic terrorists exported by the
FBI. Asa result, the 'l‘Sl')l3 contains the “.5. (iovcrnment's comprehensive database of
both international and domestic Terrorist Identifiers.

Ii. Nominating (.‘oniponents

l. The Department ofJustice contains a number ofeomponcnts that may acquire
information regarding domestic or international terrorists. These components include the
l-‘Bl. the 'l‘SC. the National Security Division. the Criminal Division, the Civil Rights
Division. the Drug Enforcement Administration, the United States Marshals Service. the
Bureau ol‘AIeohol. Tobacco. Firearms, and Explosives. The Federal Bureau of Prisons.
the Esccutive Office ol'thc United States Attorneys. the United States Attorneys. and the
United States National Central Bureau.

l’age : ofS

puaddv

L-‘l

