2. The policy ol'tltc Department ofJustice is tor all components to provide tlte I-‘Ill with
all domestic or international Terrorism Information or Terrorist Identiﬁers so tltat tire "?"-I
can make appropriate nominations to tile consolidated terrorist watchlist. With one
exception relating to ’I‘SC‘s authority itt exigent circumstances. only tlte Flll is authorized
to nominate domestic or international tcrrnrists for inclusion iii the ISO!) on hehalfofthe
Department ol'Justicc. The FBI has implemented policies governing the submission ol
suclt nominations. including procedures to follow when adding, modifying. or deleting a
T908 record. in making any proposed recommendation for watehlisting. each [)0]
component should ensure that the underlying information is reasonably accurate. relevant
and timely. lti addition. the 'I'SC Itas implemented its Pt'nlm'ul Regan/inc 'Ii'rrorm-I
Nirvana/inns These policies tnttst he followed regarding all nominations lrotn the
')epartmcnt oI'Jostiee

L \tpwdj

3. The 'I'SC. waielt ts administered by the FBI attd reports to the Attorney (ieneral. is
permitted to make entries into the 'l'Sl’m when exigent circumstances exist. Such
expedited nominations Inua‘l he tnade in compliance with the FBI nomination policies and
the 'I'SC's I’roimml Regarding 'l'errtn'isl Nnnmmliuns.

-I. The Joint 'I'erroristn 'I‘ask l-‘orces (J'l'l'l-‘l are a tnttlti-agency effort led by the
Department ol'Justiee and the FBI to combine. and leverage law enforcement and
intelligence cemmuntty resources to protect the United States from terrorist attaelt. .l'l'l‘l's
are cotnprised ol’highly trained. locally based. investigators. analysts. linguists. attd other
specialists from federal. state. local. trihal. territorial law enforcement and intelligence
community agencies. The National J‘I'I‘l: was established itt July 2002 to serve as the
coordinating mechanism for the .l'l'l'l-'s.

S. Department of Justice components. other than the l-‘ltl or the 'I'SC. are not permitted to
make direct nrminations to the 'I'SDB. A Department ol'Justice component should
inform the appropriate J'l'l'l? through disseminated intelligence reports. electronic
communication. or other method appropriate to tlte circumstances when it becomes aware
ot"l‘i.-rrorist Information. 'I'crrorist Identiﬁers. or l’urely Domestic 'l'errorism Intormation
(collectively. Intelligence Information). The originating DOJ component should state
whether it recommends watch listing the individual. the basis for tltat recommendation.
and the investigative steps. il'any. it has undertaken regarding the individual. Iftlte .l'l't'l-
determines that the inlormation received ”out another component standing alone or itt
conjunction with other information known to the FBI meets the standards set forth iii the
Attorney ticnct'al's Guidelines tor opening a preliminary terrorism investigation or a full
terrorism investigation and one has not been opened. the I ' l l-' shall initiate art
investigation a.id shall notninate case suhieets for inclusion in 'I'Il)l-. andfor the ISI)“ in
accordance \\ itlt l-‘BI policy. by tbrwarding all Intelligence Information. as appropriate. to
the I'lli's 'l'errrrist Review attd Examination I'ttit ('I'RIEXI using the H )JL‘iU form and
process.

o. The relevant J’l"l'l-' \\ ill notify the Department ofJustice component that Intelligence

Inlortztation provided by that component has been used. in whole or in part. as the basis
fora nomination to the 'I‘SI)” or the cr ration ol'a record in 'I'II'IIE. To the extent possible.

Page. 4 of 5

