3. DEFINITIONS

As used in this MOI}. these terms or phrases are deﬁned as follows:

(i.

g \ ; pugddv

Complain! nr Redraw-s- ('unmluinl: An individual‘s statement about an allegedly
adverse experience or outcotne during a terroristn screening process. which
usually includes a request for assistance or a remedy.

Dcrugulnrv Inﬁn'mulinn: 'l‘he inlormation relied upon or generated hy a
nominating/origimtting agency to support the nomination of an individual to the
TSI)|3.

Known or .S'uxpcc-Iccl Terrorist: As delined hy l-lSPl)-6. an individual known or
appropriately suspected to he or to have heen engaged in conduct constituting. in
preparation for. in aid of. or related to terrorism. Pursuant to lISPl)-o. the TSUH
shall include identifying inlbrmation ahout all known or suspected terrorists.
.l‘IiA'h/C'IIII'NLM/ I’m-son: An individual who has had an adverse experience or
outcome during terrorism screening hecause the individual is a near match to a
know n or suspected terrorist in the TSI)”. M isidentil'ted persons are not actually
listed in the 'I‘Sl)|3 hut usually share an identical or very similar name and date of
hirth with a person in the TSI)“. which causes them to he delayed or otherwise
inconvenienced during screening.

.\-’mninulinu.lgonc'v: A Federal agency that has determined that an individual is a
known or suspected terrorist and nominates that individual to the TSI)|3 hased on
inlormation that originated with that agency and/or a third agency.

()riginnlinu Agent-v: A Federal agency that generates derogatory or identilying
inlormation ahout a known or suspected terrorist.

l’crsnnullr [tit-'nliﬁuhlv Inlnrnmliun: Any representation of inl'ormation that
permits the identity ol'an individual to whom the inlormation applies to he
rcasonahly inl'erred hy either direct or indirect means including any other
inlormation. which is linked to such individual.

Rut/rosy: The process \vhcrehy an individual may seek the help ol‘a screening
agency in addressing the cause ol'an adverse experience or outcome related to the
use oI'TSDB data by ﬁling a complaint with the screening agency. The screening
agency or its designce, in cooperation with 'I SC and thc nominaltug/originating
agency. provides assistance hy determining Ihe cause ol'that adverse experience.
verifying that all relevant inlormation relied upon in the screening process is
thorough. accurate. and current. and making any warranted corrections to
pertinent records. The redress process as deﬁned in this paragraph does not apply
to complaints related to the visa application process.

Screening Agent-v: Any agency that conducts terrorism screening. A screening
agency acquires inlortnation for the purpose ol'determining whether an individual
is a known or suspected terrorist in the 'I‘Sl)|3. and evaluates and/or uses that
inl‘ormation in order to take a particular gtwcrnmental action with respect to an
individual. such as requiring additional physical security screening at an airport
security checkpoint. determining admissihility into the United States. or similar

