governmental action. The D( )S and DI IS shall not be considered screening
agencies with respect to the visa application process.

.I. Terrorism Screening: The e -‘a|uation ofan individual to determine whether he or
she is a known or suspected terrorist identilied in the TSDB in order to take a
particular governmental action with respect to an individual. such as requiring
additional physical security screening at an airport security checkpoint.
determining admissibility into the United States. or similar governmental action.

K. Turruris/ .S‘z-ruunim' Dam/ruse or TSDB: The Federal government‘s consolidated
database that contains identilying inlhrmation about known or suspected
terrorists. It is also commonly known as the consolidated terrorist watchlist. The
TSDB is a sensitive but unclassiﬁed database and does not contain any derogatory
inlbrnmtion.

L. TIDE: N('TL“s 'l'errorist Identities Datamart lEm-‘ironment ('l'll.)li). which is a
classified database containing the derogatory inlormation that supports the
nominations of known or suspected international terrorists to the TSDB.

3 stpuaddy

RESPt.)NSlB|Ll'l'lF.S 0F Tl lE PARTIES

.'\. Responsibilities of All ’artics:

i. Designation of Responsible ()fl'lcial. l'iaeh ’arty will identify a senior
official who will he responsible for ensuring the ’arly's full partieimtion
in the redress process and overall compliance with this MOU. A Party
may aISo designate redress officials for components ol‘that Party that
perform screening or nominating/origimning agency functions. The
Parties agree to identify these officials and exchange the names ofthesc
officials no later than 30 calendar days after this MOU becomes effective
and update the inlbrmation as needed thereafter.

ii. Resources. Subject to the availability of funds. each Party will identify
and commit appropriate staffand other resources to carry out
responsibilities under this MOU. This includes identifying the oflice(s)
responsible for carrying out the Party's responsibilities pertaining to the
processing of indi\ idual redress complaints as set forth in this MOU. The
Parties agree to exchange the names and contact inlormation lor the
responsible offices no later than 30 calendar days after this MOU becomes
effective. and update the inlbrmation as needed thereafter.

iii. lntbrmation Sharing. liach Party will share all inlbrmation relevant to the
resolution ofa complaint with other Parties to the extent necessary to
carry out this MOU or to defend any judicial challenge to the resolution of
a complaint. consistent with legal requirements and classification and
handling controls. A Party may provide the relevant inlormation in a
sunnnarized or substituted format to protect sensitive sources and
methods.

iv. Protection of Personallv Identifiable lnlbrmation. liach ’any will take
appropriat ' action to protect personally identifiable inlbrmation (I’ll) in its
own record systems related to a redress matter against unauthorized access

4

