vi.

viii.

agency records. and t3) inlormation identil'ying the complainant including.
at a minimum. the complainant‘s full name. date ol'hirth. and place of
citizenship. Alter consultation with a |Tected ’arlies. 'l'SC may revise
these requirements in the future as needed for expeditious processing of
redress complaints. No amendment to the MOU would he required to
effectuate such a change.

l-ollo\\-up with the Complainant. ll'requested hy 'I'SL'. the screening
agency will contact the complainant to request additional inlormation to
assist TSC or the nominaling/originating agency in verifying the
complainant‘s identit ' and processing the complaint. Nothing in this
suhsection precludes a screening agency from contacting the cmnplainant
in accordance with the screening agency‘s procedures or discretion.
Response to the Complainant. Screening agencies are responsible for
providing a written response to complaints they receive based on
inlormation provided by TS(.‘ and the nominating/originating agency.
Because ol'the sensitivity ol'the 'I'S|)B and derogatory inlormation. the
content ol'any response to a complaint must he coordinated with '| SC and
the nomimtting/origimning agency through 'I'SC. Screening agencies may
use stamlardizcd response letters that have hecn coordinated in advance by
the screening agency. 'I'SL'. and |)().|.

Redress Ior hllisidentil'ted Persons. On January I7. 2000. DHS and DOS
announced an initiative on “Secure Borders and Open Doors in the
Inlormation Age." otherwise known as the Riee-L'hertoll' Initiative. which
includes the establishment ol‘a redress process to address perceived
prohlems in international and domestic traveler screening. The HHS
Screening Coordination Ofﬁce is leading the inter-agency el’l'ort to l'ull'ill
the goals ot'the Riee-(‘hcrtol't' Initiative. which is intended to improve the
redress process for persons who are misidentilied during traveler
screening processes. among other improvements

Administrative Appeals. ll'thc screening agency has established an
administrative appeals process for redress determinations or other agency
determimltions in which the TSUB was used. the screening agency will
notify 'I'SC after receiving any such administrativ - appeal and work with
'l'SC. as needed. to process the appeal. and coordinate the ﬁnal agency
response with 'I'St‘. The screening agency will provide all relevant
paperwork to TSC' (including a copy ol'the appeal letter and any
inlormation suhmitted hy the individual on their own hehall'). When the
screening agency has the legal authority to make the ﬁnal decision on the
appeal. it will promptly notify 'l‘Sl' ol'that decision.

l.itigati_o_n. When the screening agency hecontcs aware of litigation arising
out ol'terrorism screening. the screening agency will notify '| SC and |)( ).l
as soon as possihle al'ter identilying the news to the TSI)“. Notilieation
should occur as soon as the Party learns ol'an individual‘s intent to sue or
immediately after being served with legal process.

8 xtpiaddv

