\'l.

vii.

viii.

 

joint recommendation to 'I‘SC'. ll'thc nominating/originating agencies

request that the agencies consult with one another and share appropriate
information about the watchlisted indi\ idttal in an attempt to provide a

3 xtpusddv

catmot agree to a joint recommendation. TSC (or other agency with tltc
legal authority to make the decision) will make the linal detertnination
considering the inlitrmation provided by each agency.

Review Related to Misidcnlilied Persons. ll'a complainant's ad\ erse
experience or outcome dttring terrorism screening is a result ol' being a

n -ar match ("misidentiﬁed") to a record in the TSDB. attd that complaint
is I'clerrcd to TS(' by the screening agency. "I‘SL' will review the record in
the 'I‘Sl)”. as described in the paragraphs above. to cnsttre the 'I‘Slm
record is valid and satisﬁes the criteria for inclusion in thc 'I‘Slm and
determine il'additional information can be added to 'l‘ll)l:. the 'l‘Sl)B. or
other agency systems to redttce the likelihood ol'a l'uture misidcntilication.
ll'thc record does not meet the criteria. it will he removed from the
'l‘Sl)”.

_.I\dministrativc Appeals. TSC will work with a screening agency to assist
it in processing atty mlministrathe appeal ol'a redress determination or
other dctermimntion in which the TSDB was used. When 'I'SC receives
notice ol'an appeal. 'I‘SL' will notify I '("l‘(' and/or the
notnittatlug/originating agency as soon as possible. TSC will facilitate
communications between the nominating/originating and screening
agencies on the following issues: t | ) determining what material may be
releasable to the individual during appeal (il'applicable). and t2) updating
the analysis ol'any inlormation that may have developed since the original
determimttion and/or any inlormatimt that was provided by the individual
on his or her behall'during the appeals process itsell'. Alter reviewing the
available inlbrmation and considering any recommendation li'om the
notninating/nriginating agency, TSC‘ will make a determination whether
the record should remain in the T30“. have its TSDB status modiﬁed. or
be removed. unless the legal authority to make such a determination
resides. in whole or in part. with another agency. In such cases. 'I‘SC will
only prepare a recommendation for the decision-making agency and will
implement any determination once made.

W. When 'I‘SC becomes aware of litigation arising ottt ol'terrorism
screening. 'l‘SC will notify N("|'(_'. the nominaling/originating agency. and
|)().l as soon as possible.

Res onsibilities ol'thc National (.‘ounterterrorism Center:

Review. (‘mtrdinatiom and Research ol'L'omplaints. Upon receipt ol'a
complaint from TSC. NCTC will review its holdings. notil'y the
nominating/originating agency ol'the complaint. and provide the
nominating/originating agency with a copy ol'thc complaint for review.

