NC'I‘C \\ ill then request that the nominatirig/originating agency and. as
appropriate. any other agency with relevant inlonnation. review their
holdings and provide NCTC~ inlormation relevant to the complaint. This
may include updated inlormation or analysis regarding the complainant‘s
current status in the TSDB. derogatory inlormation. identilying
inlormation that might he relevant to a misidentilication. or other
potentially relevant infm'mation or analysis (including that which tends to
show that the individual is not a known or suspected terrorist. or which
otherwise tends to cast doubt on the derogatory inlormationl. NL'TL' will
also request that the nominatirig/originating agency provide its
recommendation regarding resolution ofthc complaint. With the
concurrence ofthe nomitinting/originating agency. NC'I'C' \\ ill provide
that agency‘s recommendation and any other relevant information to TSC.
Should TSP or another agency disagree with the recommendation. NCTL"
will assist in the deconlliction process as set forth above. NCTC generally
will not receive or process complaints or appeals for imlividuals
nominated only by the FBI.

Review Related to Misidentilied Persons. If a complainant's adverse
experience or outcome during terrorism screening was the result of being a
near match ("misidentiﬁed") to a record in the 'I‘SDB. and that complaint
is referred to 'l‘SC' by the screening agency. NC'TC' will work with 'I‘SC
and the nominating/originating agency to ensure the TEDB record is valid
and satisfies the criteria for inclusion in the TSUB. and determine if
additional inlbrmation can he added to TIDE. the TSl)B, or other agency
systems to reduce the likelihood ofa future misidentilicalion.

Update of TIDE. NCTL‘ will promptly update TIDE records with any new
derogatory or other relevant inlormation (including that which tends to
show that the individual is not a known or suspected terrorist. or which
otherwise tends to cast doubt on the derogatory inllirmation) pertaining to
individuals in the TSDB. NCTC will also modify TIDE in a timely
fashion to reflect mmlilications to 'l'SDB nominations resulting from a
redress complaint and will make appropriate changes to a given 'l'lDl-I
record when it is necessary to trigger electronically eonllirming changes to
the TSDB record.

.I\dministrative A ) weals. NC'I‘C will work with 'I‘SC'. as needed. to assist
it in processing any :ulministrative appeal ofa redress determination or
other determination in which the TSDB \\ as used. including coordinating
communication between TSL‘. the screening agency. and the relevant
nominaling/originating agency. as necessary. NCTL"s primary role will
he to coordinate administrative appeal requests by TSC with the
appropriate nominating/origimuing agency in the Intelligence (‘ommunity
other than the FBI.

8 xtpnaddv

 

Ill

