.~\dminislrative A tcals. l-Iach notnitntting/originating agency will work
with TSC and NC‘TC. as needed, to assist them in processing an appeal of
a redress determimttion or other determination in which the TSUB \\ as
ttscd. The nominating/originating agency will be responsible for advising
the screening agency on the rclcasahility of any materials requested by an
appellant during an appeal. An updated analysis of all relevant
inlormation will he coordinated between NCTC and the
nominatingt’originating agency. and will be forwarded to TS('. which in
turn will provide it to the screening agency. The analysis will consider
any new in lortnation developed since the initial determination. as \\cll as
any information provided by the individual on his or her own behalf
during the appeals process itself.

   

g \‘tpuaddv

l-_ Responsibilities ofthc l')enartmcnl ol'Jnsticc:

i. l)().l \\ ill coordinate with the relevant ’arties during the defense of any
judicial challenge to the resolution ofa complaint processed under this
MOU or a determination by a screening agency that relied in whole or in
part on records or information in the 'I'Sl)B.

ii. DOJ will consult with the Parties. as necessary. to provide continuing
legal advice and support on tnatters related to \\atch|isting redress and this
MOLE.

(i. Visa Appli 'ation Process; DOS and DI IS Responsibilities at the Time of Visa

Refusal:

i. DOS and DllS will continue to comply with applicable visa procedures.
which may include an at-post internal review by a supervisory consular
officer or another appropriate oflicial. While a consular officer‘s denial of
a visa application may not be overruled. that determination is informed by
an internal managctncnt review and. in appropriate cases. by input from an
inleragency review.

ii. If a visa application is refused. applicants are advised that they may re-
apply fora \ isa. A subsequent application is considered as a new case.
DOS agrees to continue to review the underlying data and facts in such
subsequent applications. Whenever appropriate. DOS consults with ‘I‘SC'.
NC'I'C. and other agencies regarding data that appears incomplete or
inaccurate. or otherwise conflicts with inlormation obtained in the visa
applicatitm process.

5, Sl-I'l"l‘l.l{l\'ll-IN'I' ()l: DISl’ll'l'liS
Escept as set forth in paragraphs 4.C.v and -'l.l7..iii concerning the deconlliction of\\atch|ist

nominations. disagreements between the Parties arising under or related to this MOU will be
resolved only by consultation between the Parties.

