rights and civil liberties: strengthen intemational partnerships and coordination on
aviation security issues.

(, \‘tpuaddv

- Develop recommendations on long-tenn law enforcement requirements for aviation
security in coordination with the Department ol'Justice.

Director of National Intelligence

0 Immediately real'limt and clarify roles and responsibilities of the counterterrorism
analytic components ol'the Intelligence Community in synchronizing. correlating. and
analyzing all sources of intelligence related to terrorism.

- Accelerate information technology enhancements. to include knowledge discovery.
database integration. cross-database searches. and the ability to correlate biographic
information with terrorism-related intelligence.

- 'l'ake further steps to enhance the rigor and raise the standard of tradecraft ol'intelligenec
analysis. especially analysis designed to uncover and prevent terrorist plots.

0 Ensure resources are properly aligned with issues highlighted in strategic warning
analysis.

The Central Intelligence Agency
0 Issue guidance aimed at ensuring the timely distribution ol'intelligence reports

0 Strengthen procedures related to how watchlisting information is entered. reviewed.
searched. analyzed. and acted upon

Federal Bureau of Investigation/Terrorist Screening Center

0 Conduct a thorough review of Terrorist Screening Database holdings and ascertain
current visa status ol'all "known and suspected terrorists." beginning with the .\’0 Fly list.

0 Develop recommendations on whether adjustments are needed to the \\ atcltlisting
Nominations Guidance. including biographic and derogatory criteria for inclusion in the
Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment and Terrorist Screening Database. as well as
the subset Selectee and No Fly lists.

National Counterterrorism Center

0 Establish and resource appropriately a process to prioritize and to pursue thoroughly and
exhaustively terrorism threat threads. to include the identiﬁcation of appropriate follow-
up action by the intelligence. law enforcement. and homeland security communities.

