0 Establish a dedicated capability responsible for enhancing record information on possible
terrorists in the Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment l0r watehlisting purposes.

(, xipundch

National Security Agency

0 Develop and begin implementation ofa training course to enhance analysts' awareness of
watchlisting processes and procedures in partnership with National Countcrtcrrorism
Terrorist Center and the Terrorist Screening Center.

National Security Staff

- Initiate an interagency policy process to review the systemic failures leading to the
attempted terror attack on December 25. 2009, in order to make needed policy
adiustments and to clarify roles and responsibilities within the counterterrorism
community

0 Initiate an interagency review of the \vatchlisting process. including business processes.
procedures. and criteria for watchlisting. and the interoperability and sufficiency of
supporting information technology systems.

I have designated my Assistant for Homeland Security and (.‘ountcrtcrrorism .Iohn Brennan to be
the responsible and accountable White House ofﬁcial to ensure rapid progress is made in all
areas. A montth status report on actions underway should be submitted to me through Mr.
Brennan. In addition. I am directing Mr. Brennan to work with departments and agencies and
the Office of Management and Budget on resource requirements that are necessary to address the
shortcomings uncovered by our review. Finally. I will ask my Intelligence Advisory Board to
look at broader analytic and intelligence issues associated with this incident. including how to
meet the challenge associated with exploiting the ever-increasing volume of information
available to the Intelligence Community. As “e go forward. it is imperative that “e \vork
together to correct problems highlighted by this incident. focusing on concrete solutions. We are
all reSponsiblc for the safety and security of the American people and must redouble our efforts
to be effective in carrying out this solemn responsibility.

 

.Il

