/

,-

y.

/

Rx W!

Io.--
.uji \;
—-;

Q'itsC

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/ SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

Summary of Changes and Updates from the
2010 Watchlisting Guidance

~\L‘.
I;
' 'I a ,

c/g;

€,.£-(&jﬂFOUO) The Watchlisting Guidance is a comprehensive document detailing the US.

Government’s terrorist watchlisting policies and procedures. It was originally developed to help
standardize the watchlisting community’s nomination and screening processes. Since approval of
the Watchlisting Guidance in July of 2010, the guidance and its related appendices have
undergone a thorough interagency review as a result ofa May 2010 Deputy’s Committee tasking
to the White House National Security Staff Information Sharing and Access Interagency Policy
Committee (IPC) that any signiﬁcant issues or required changes be brought back to the Deputies
for discussion. The Information Sharing and Access IPC identiﬁed a number of changes in
Department and Agency watchlisting practices that had evolved since dissemination of the
guidance in 2010. In order to reﬂect these changes, the 2013 Watchlisting Guidance was
developed over a period of several months by an IPC under the auspices of the Presidential Policy
Directive —One (PPD 1) process with representatives from the Departments of State, Treasury,
Defense, Justice and Homeland Security, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the
Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the
National Counterterrorism Center, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Terrorist
Screening Center. The Deputies Committee adopted the recommendation of the IPC to approve
the 2013 Watchlisting Guidance on March 12, 2013.

(U//FOUO) The 2013 Watchlisting Guidance has a new structure and is organized in a way that
mirrors the watchlisting cycle. It is now a single document divided as follows into fives chapters,
with signiﬁcant watchlisting foundational documents for reference, and a list of definitions,
acronyms, and abbreviations:

Chapter I: Watchlisting Process and Procedures;

Chapter 2: Minimum Identifying Criteria;

Chapter 3: Minimum Substantive Derogatory Criteria;

Chapter 4: No Fly, Selectee and Expanded Selectee Lists Implementation Guidance;
Chapter 5: Encounter Management and Analysis;

Appendix 1: Definitions;

Appendix 2: Homeland Security Presidential Directive 6;

Appendix 3: Memorandum of Understanding on the Integration and Use of Screening
Information to Protect Against Terrorism (TSC MOU);

0 Appendix 4: Addendum B to the TSC MOU;

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/ SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

WARNING: This record contains Sensitive Security Information that is controlled under 49 CFR parts [5 and l520.
No part of this record may be disclosed to persons without a “need to know”, as defined in 49 CF R parts IS and 1520,
except with the written permission of the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration or the
Secretary of Transportation. Unauthorized release may result in civil penalty or other action. For US. Government
Agencies. public disclosure is governed by 5 U.S.C. 552 and 49 CFR parts l5 and [520.

ll \lpundth

