UNCLASSIFIED/IFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

1.58.4 Within 72 hours of contacting the TSOC, the NOMINATOR must provide appropriate
follow-up documentation that articulates, through either classiﬁed or unclassiﬁed means,
the substantive DEROGATORY 1NFORMAT10N used to establish the basis for TERRORIST
watchlisting.

1.59 Expedited Nomination Procedures for Temporary. Threat-Based Categories. This
provision is intended to enable categories of individuals to be temporarily upgraded in
watchlist status based on current and credible intelligence information or a particular threat
stream that indicates a certain category of individuals may be used to conduct an act of
domestic or international TERRORISM. This temporary, threat—based expedited upgrade (TB U)
is made at the direction of the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism or his/her designee (Appropriate Official) and should be narrowly tailored to
address the threat.

1.59.1 The goal of this provision is to fashion a watchlisting response that is appropriate to
the nature, speciﬁcity, and severity of the threat. To achieve this goal, in addition to
verifying the credibility of the threat intelligence, due consideration should be given to:

1.59.1.1 The harm to public safety posed by the threat;

1.59.1.2 The clarity and speciﬁcity ofthe information giving rise to the threat as to
time, place, method, and identity of the suspected perpetrators;

1.59.1.3 The anticipated impact on international and domestic travel, civil liberties,
and foreign relations; and,

1.59.1.4 The best available screening tools, other than the No Fly or Selectee Lists,
given the type and speciﬁcity of identiﬁers and travel data.

1.59.2 When necessitated by exigent circumstances, and where there is current and credible
intelligence information or a particular threat stream that indicates a certain category of
individuals may be used to conduct an act of domestic or international TERRORISM, the
Appropriate Ofﬁcial may direct the TSC and NCTC to place categories of individuals
from TIDE or TSDB on the No Fly List, Selectee List, or into the TSDB for up to 72
hours before concurrence is obtained from the Deputies or Principals Committee. To the
extent practicable, the initial direction to NCTC and TSC from the Appropriate Ofﬁcial
will be in writing. Absent DEROGATORY INFORMATION supporting individual nomination
or watchlist upgrade, if written concurrence is not obtained within 72 hours of the initial
direction to TSC and NCTC, the TSC will automatically remove any individuals added
to the No Fly List, Selectee List, or TSDB pursuant to the 'l‘BU, until such written
direction is received.

1.59.3 The addition ofcategories of individuals to the No Fly List, Selectee List, or TSDB
pursuant to Paragraph 1.59.2 shall be effected for a period oftime, consistent with the

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

Page | 26

