UNCLASSIFIEDHFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

that use TSDB data during a TERRORISM screening process to refer individuals’ complaints to
the TSC if it appears the complaints may be related to the watchlisting process. The goal of
the watchlist redress process is to provide for timely and fair review of individuals’
complaints and to identify and correct any errors in the TSDB.

1.68 The watchlist redress process is a multi-Agency process involving the DHS, TSC, NCTC,
NOMINA'I‘ORS, and SCRIEENERS. On September 19,2007, Agencics participating in the
watchlist redress process executed the Redress MOU to set forth a coordinated redress process
to respond to individual complaints about adverse screening experiences.”5

1.69 TSC’s Redress Ofﬁce is responsible for receiving, tracking, and researching watchlist-related
complaints that SCREENERS refer to TSC. For each redress complaint received, the Redress
Ofﬁce conducts an in-depth analysis to determine ifthe person’s complaint is related to a
TSDB record, including a determination of whether the complainant is the watchlisted
individual or merely a near-match to a watchlist record. lfthe complainant is the watchlisted
individual, the TSC’s Redress Office will determine whether the watchlisted individual still
meets all the watchlisting criteria.

1.70 For each complaint, the TSC Redress Ofﬁce coordinates with the NOMINATOR (via NCTC
when the NOMINATOR is not the FBI), who assists in the evaluation of the complaint to ensure
the most current, accurate, and thorough information available is used to review the person’s
watchlist status. Where appropriate and warranted by the current information and applicable
criteria, a person’s watchlist status may be adjusted (e.g., downgraded from the No Fly to
Selcctee List or the person’s identity may be removed entirely from the TSDB). lfthe redress
complaint was referred to the TSC from the DHS Traveler Redress lnquiry Program (DHS
TRIP), the individual’s adjusted watchlist status will be provided to DHS TRIP for issuance of
an appropriate response.

1.71 DHS TRIP is a single point ofcontact for individuals who have inquiries or seek resolution
regarding difficulties they experience during their travel screening or inspection at, for
example, transportation hubs like airports, or when crossing U.S. borders. The DHS TRIP
website is www.dhs.gov/trip. DHS TRIP ensures a thorough review is completed by
consulting and sharing information with other DHS Components and other Agencies, as
appropriate, to address the issues identiﬁed by the complainant.

XII. PERIODIC REVIEW OF THE WATCHLISTING GUIDANCE

1.72 This Watchlisting Guidance shall be reviewed no less than every two years following the
conclusion of the previous review, or as needed.

 

35 See Appendix 8, Redress MOU; see also FN 16, supra.
UNCLASSIFIEDHFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

Page | 29

