UNCLASSIFIED/lFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

TERRORISM and/or TERRORlST ACTIVITIES.43

3.1 1 Types of KNOWN TERRORISTS for Whom REASONABLE SUSPICION is Established by
Recognized Authority and for Whom Particularized Derogatory Information is Not
Required.

3.1 1.1 Arrested or Convicted TERRORISTS.44 lndividuals who have been arrested or
convicted for TERRORIST ACTIVITY are considered KNOWN TERRORISTS who should be
nominated. The arrest or conviction is presumed to meet the REASONABLE SUSPICION
standard for watchlisting unless there is reason to believe that the information is
questionable (e.g., faulty or erroneous), of dubious origin (e.g., poison pen, source
known to be unreliable, or politically motivated) or the result of an unreliable process
(e.g., conviction by a court that does not adhere to minimally acceptable due process
standards). Nominations should include the charge, location, and date of the arrest or
conviction, ifavailable.

3.1 1.2 Individuals Identiﬁed Pursuant to Statute or Executive Order.45 Pursuant to
Executive Order 13224, as amended, “Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions
with Persons who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism,” Executive
Order 12947, as amended, “Prohibiting Transactions with Terrorists Who Threaten to
Disrupt the Middle East Peace Process,” and section 302 of the Antiterrorism and
Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA), the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s
Ofﬁce of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) publishes, updates, and maintains an
integrated and comprehensive list of designated parties with whom U.S. PERSONS are
prohibited from providing services or conducting transactions and whose assets are
blocked. The names on this list include persons designated under country-based and
list—based economic sanctions programs, as well as individuals and entities designated
under the various Executive Orders and Statutes aimed at TERRORISM. Persons
designated under Executive Order 13224, Executive Order 12947, or the AEDPA are
included on this integrated and comprehensive list and are ‘Specially Designated Global
Terrorists’ (SDGTs), ‘Specially Designated Terrorists’ (SDTs), or ‘Foreign Terrorist

 

‘3 TERRORISM and/or TERRORlST ACTIVITIES include acts that the actor knows or reasonably should know affords
material support to any individual who the actor knows or reasonably should know, has committed or plans to commit a
terrorist activity, to a terrorist organization or to any member of such an organization. Material support includes
providing a safe house, transportation, communications, funds, transfer of funds or other material beneﬁt, false
documentation or identification, weapons (including chemical, biological. or radiological weapons), explosives, or
training for the commission of an act of'l‘ERRORlSM and/or TERRORIST ACTIVITY.

4‘ See Paragraph 3.13.1 for situations involving individuals who are acquitted or against whom charges are dismissed
for a crime related to TERRORISM.

‘5 These authorities generally authorize the Secretary of State (in consultation with either the Secretary of the Treasury,
the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or a combination thereof) to designate and block the assets
of foreign individuals and entities that commit, or pose a signiﬁcant risk of committing, acts of’l'ERRORlSM that threaten
the security of U.S. nationals or the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States. Additionally,
leaders or members of a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO), an Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT) under
Executive Order 13224, or an organization named to the Terrorist Exclusion List (TEL) may be designated as a terrorist
organization by the Secretary of State for immigration purposes pursuant to INA section 212(a)(3)(B)(vi)(ll) [8 U.S.C.

1 l89(a)(3)(B)(vi)(ll)].

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

Page I 36

