UNCLASSIFIED/lFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

4.9

4.10

4.8.3.6 Subject is associated with a TERRORIST group/cell and the subject is
accumulating weapons/explosives.

()PERATIONALLY CAPABLE Scenarios. The three scenarios set forth below serve as some
examples ofNo Fly List nominations that would fall under the fourth No Fly List criterion:

4.9.] There is credible information that the planning or preparation for a TERRORIST attack
against the interests ofthe United States or a foreign government is ongoing and there is
an indication that an individual is OPERATIONALLY CAPABLE;

4.9.2 There is credible information that an individual is linked with an organization known to
target U.S. interests. The actual target may be unknown but indicated to bc a
commercial facility frequented by U.S. citizcns abroad. lntelligence identifies an
operational or pre-operational capability of this individual whose cell is planning a near-
term attack on a target (e.g., a plot to kill U.S. nationals residing in a foreign hotel or
frequenting a foreign nightclub); or,

4.9.3 There is credible information that an individual is linked with an organization known to
target foreign governments. The actual target may be unknown but indicated to be a
foreign government facility such as an embassy, consulatc, mission or military
installation. lntelligence identifies an operational or pre-operational capability of this
individual whose cell is planning a ncar-tcrm attack on a target (e.g., a plot to bomb the
British Parliament or the March 1 l, 2004, Madrid bombing).

One—Time Waiver Policy.

4.10.] TSA regulations prohibit U.S. flagged air carriers and foreign ﬂagged air carriers
from transporting individuals, who pose the level ofthreat required for No Fly status, on
regulated commercial flights, including all flights operated by U.S. air carriers
regardless of the location, and ﬂights operated by foreign air carriers to, from, or over
the United States. This prohibition applies regardless ofthc individual’s status as a U.S.
PERSON.

4.10.2 When necessary, the U.S. Government may authorize and grant a One Time Waiver
(OTW) to an air carrier permitting the carrier to transport an individual on a specified
itinerary under controlled conditions. OTWs are coordinated with DHS (including CBP
and TSA), FBI, DOS and DO] as appropriate, prior to being authorized by TSC. Once
authorized by TSC, TSA will review the conditions of transport and may grant the
waiver, permitting the air carrier to transport the individual. lfthe itinerary changes, or
the conditions of transport of the individual change, TSA will deny boarding to the
individual until such time as satisfactory conditions are present.

4.10.3 U.S. PERSONS Encountered Overseas.

4.10.3.1 While placement on the No Fly List does not legally bar a U.S. PERSON from

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

Page I 53

