UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

and credible intelligence information or a particular threat stream that indicates a certain
category of individuals may conduct an act of domestic or international TERRORISM.

4.15.6 Under exigent operational circumstances, when DEROGA’I‘ORY INFORMATION may not

be widely disseminated or stored in TIDE, individual watchlist status determinations can
be made by the Director of the TSC, in accordance with the relevant criteria76 contained
in the Watchlisting Guidance. Coordination should occur with relevant NOMINATING
AGENCIES and SCREENERS.

4.l6 Totality of the Information. The foregoing guidance is neither intended to be determinative

nor intended to serve as a checklist. Rather, it is intended to guide the watchlisting
community in assessing whether the established criteria are satisﬁed for a specific record,
based on the totality of available information, a current threat stream, and/or the current threat
environment.

1x. SPECIALSITUATIONS"

4.l7 Requirement for Full Names and Complete Dates of Birth. Generally, TERRORIST

4.l8

identities nominated to either the No Fly or the Selectee List must have both a full name and a
complete date of birth. ldentities without both will usually not be included on either list.
Dates of birth shall not be fabricated.78

4.17.] There is, however, a narrow exception to the requirement for full names and

complete dates of birth for individuals from non—Visa Waiver Program countries for
international TERRORIST nominations. lfa non-Visa Waiver Program country” has
issued a travel document with only a year of birth, or a veriﬁed government—issued
identiﬁcation document with only a year of birth, then it is permissible to use only that
year of birth. The NOMINATING AGENCY, however, should, whenever possible, specify
the type of document containing the year of birth, and the passport number (ifthe
document is a passport). Otherwise, a year of birth alone will not be accepted for
nominations to the No Fly or Selectee Lists. The NOMINATING AGENCY has a continuing
obligation to attempt to determine the complete date of birth.

Expedited Waiver of“Full Date of Birth” Requirement for No Fly or Selectee
Nominations. When necessitated by exigent circumstances, a NOMINA'I‘OR may nominate an
individual or individuals to the No Fly or Selectee List with only a partial date of birth, but for
whom there is additional identifying information. This provision is intended to enable
nominations based on current and credible intelligence information or a particular threat

 

7" Determinations made under this section apply to the No Fly, Selectee and Expanded Selectee List criteria.
77 See Paragraph 1.59 for a complete discussion of expedited nomination procedures for temporary, threat-based

categories.

78 The dates of birth of January I (0l/0 l/xxxx), July I (07/0l/xxxx), November I l (l H] l/xxxx), and December 31

(12/3 l/xxxx) are examples of dates that may be fabricated and as such, should receive additional scrutiny at all stages of
the reporting, nomination, and watchlisting process.

7° Visa Waiver Program countries include a complete date of birth in their passports.

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

Page | 56

