UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

10.
ll.
l2.
l3.
l4.

l7.
I8.

20.
21.
22.
23.

24.
25.

26.
27.

28.

29.

30.

Passport number, country, expiration date

Country of citizenship

Other citizenships held

Residential address and telephone number in home country

Local residential address and telephone number (if already in country)

Name and address for communication about this application

Name and address of friends, relatives, or contacts you have in the country (if
applicable)

All periods of employment, including self-employment (to/from dates, name of
employer, location, type of work/oecupation/job title)

Financial information used to support visa application including bank
statements, salary slips/letters, and property records

Length of planned stay in country

Questions concerning the person’s character (e. g., whether the person has ever
been convicted, charged, or under investigation for any offensc(s) against the
law in any country; ever deported, excluded or refused a visa by/rcmoved from
any country; and police certificates (as evidence of character) from home
country or countries of citizenship and from all countries where the person has
lived for ﬁve or more years since age 17)

Whether the application is for a student visa, a student permit, or a limited
purpose visa

Whether the application is for a variation of conditions to work

Course of study and details of the course(s) enrolled

Arrangements for outward travel from host country

Name of legal guardian, other names legal guardian is known by, and
relationship (e.g., mother, father, legal guardian)

Any national identity number or other unique identifier issued by a government
Any completed military service (e.g., from/to dates, rank, unit name or number,
role)

Whether presently subject to military service obligation in any country

Any association with any intelligence agency or group, or law enforcement
agency

Any association with any group or organization that has used or promoted
violence to further their aims

Any involvement in war crimes, crimes against humanity, and/or human rights
abuses

Payment method for application fee (e. g., bank check/draft, credit card, or
personal check)

VIII. OBTAINING ENCOUNTER INFORMATION THROUGH TSC’S DAILY
EHV(3()IJPWTIEFKIIIEP()RYFS

5.2] In addition to the aforementioned 'I‘SC/Ol lle following an ENCOUNTER with a person who is
a POSITIVE MATCll to a KNOWN or SUSPECTED TERRORIST, Agencies can obtain the Daily

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY/SENSITIVE SECURITY INFORMATION

Page 77

