'Jf A'U'"

M m..."

\iptindth

For Immediate Release
Office of the Press Secretary
September 16. 2003

L

Homeland Security Presidential Directive/Hspd-B
Subject. Integration and Use of Screening Information

To protect against terrorism it is the policy of the United States to (1) develop. integrate. and maintain
thorough. accurate. and current information about individuals known or appropriately suspected to be or
have been engaged in conduct constituting. in preparation for. in aid of. or related to terrorism (Terrorist
Information), and (2] use that information as appropriate and to the full extent permitted by law to support
(a) Federal. State. local. territorial. tnbal. foreign-government. and private-sector screening processes.
and (b) diplomatic. military. intelligence. law enforcement. immigration. visa. and protective processes

This directive shall be implemented in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Constitution and
applicable laws. including those protecting the rights of all Americans.

To further strengthen the ability of the United States Government to protect the people. property. and
territory of the United States against acts of terrorism, and to the full extent permitted by law and
consistent with the policy set forth above:

(1) The Attorney General shall establish an organization to consolidate the Government's approach to
terrorism screening and prowde for the appropriate and lawful use of Terrorist Information in screening
processes

(2') The heads of executive departments and agenCies shall. to the extent permitted by law. prowde to the
Terrorist Threat Integration Center (TTIC) on an ongomg basis all appropriate Terrorist Information in their
possession. custody. or control. The Attorney General. in coordination with the Secretary of State. the
Secretary of Homeland Security. and the Director of Central Intelligence shall implement appropriate
procedures and safeguards with respect to all such information about United States persons. The TTIC
will provide the organization referenced in paragraph (1) with access to all appropriate information or
intelligence in the TTIC's custody. possession. or control that the organization requires to perform its
functions.

(3) The heads of executive departments and agenCies shall conduct screening using such information at
all appropriate opportunities. and shall report to the Attorney General not later than 90 days from the date
of this directive. as to the opportunities at which such screening shall and shall not be conducted

(4) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall develop guidelines to govern the use of such information to
support State. local. temtorial. and tribal screening processes. and private sector screening processes
that have a substantial bearing on homeland security.

(5) The Secretary of State shall develop a proposal for my approval for enhancing cooperation with
certain foreign governments. beginning with those countries for which the United States has waived visa
requirements. to establish appropriate access to terrorism screening information of the participating
governments

This directive does not alter existing authorities or responsibilities of department and agency heads to
carry out operational actiwties or prowde or receive information This directive is intended only to improve
the internal management of the executive branch and is not intended to. and does not. create any right or

Page of T

