Terrorist Screening Center

, (3) To implement the President's directive, the Attorney General, acting through the Director of
the FBI, and in coordination with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and
the Director of Central Intelligence, will establish the Terrorist Screening Center to consolidate
the Government's approach to terrorism screening and provide for the appropriate and lawful use
of Terrorist Information, in screening processes. (U)

g thu‘addv

(4) The Terrorist Screening Center will:

(a) maintain a consolidated terrorist screening database that is a continuously updated, sensitive
but unclassiﬁed subset of the Terronst Information possessed by the TTIC, and the Purely
Domestic Terrorism Information (i.e., information about US. persons that has been determined
to be purely domestic terrorism information with no link to foreign intelligence.
counterintelligencc, or international terrorism) possessed by the FBI;

(b) determine, for each entry in the consolidated terrorist screening database. which supported
screening processes shall query that entry, as described in paragraphs (15) through (24);

(c) ensure, consistent with applicable law, that appropriate information possessed by State, local,
territorial, and tribal governments, which is available to the Federal government, is considered in
determinations made by the Terrorist Screening Center;

(d) host mechanisms to support appropriate screening processes; and

(c) provide continual operational support to assist in the identiﬁcation of persons sereened and,
when an Individual known or appropriately suspected to be involved in activities constituting, in
preparation for, in aid of, or related to terrorism, has been identiﬁed through a screening process.

facilitate, to the extent permitted by law, appropriate and lawful actions to be taken by
appropriate departments and agencies. (U)

(5) The Terrorist Screening Center will be headed by a senior US. Government ofﬁcial (the
Director of the Terrorist Screening Center), who will report to the Attorney General through the
Director of the FBI. The Director ofthc Terrorist Screening Center will be appointed by the
Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of
State. the Director of the FBI, and the Director of Central Intelligence. The Principal Deputy

Director of the Terrorist Screening Center will be a senior ofﬁcial from the Department of
Homeland Security. (U)

(6) The Terronst Screening Center will be staffed with assignecs and other ofﬁcials from the
Department of State, the Department ofJustice, the Department of Homeland Security, and other
Federal depanments and agencies that the Terrorist Screening Center supports. The Director of
Central Intelligence, acting in his capacity as statutory head ofthe Intelligence Community. may

Page 2 of8

