also determine that assignees of other appropriate agencies, within the Intelligence Community,
will be made available to perform appropriate duties at the Terrorist Screening Center. (U)

xtpuaddv

(7) Personnel assigned to the Terrorist Screening Center will have appropriate access to thc TTIC
database and any relevant intelligence information necessary to perform the Terrorist Screening
Center's functions. To the extent requrred by law, the Parties to this Memorandum mayjointly
determine the circumstances under Which personnel from the Intelligence Community, assigned
to the Terrorist Screening Center in accordance with paragraph (6), may participate in the
functions ofthe Terrorist Screening Center relating to US. persons. (U)

C
I.

(8) The Director of the Terrorist Screening Center will establish necessary procedures and
safeguards to ensure the Terrorist Screening Center's functions are carried out in a manner
consistent with the Constitution and applicable laws. including, but not limited to, procedures to:

(a) address the repeated misidentiﬁcation of persons in any US. Government screening process;

(b) regularly review information, and to promptly adjust or delete erroneous or outdated
information: and

(c) protect personal privacy. (U)

(9) Consistent with the President's directive, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the
Secretary of Homeland Security, the Attorney General, and the Director of Central Intelligence.
and working with the Director of the Terrorist Screening Center, not later than 180 days from
today. will recommend to the President through the Assistant to the President for Homeland
Security and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, a proposal for
cooperating with certain foreign governments (beginning with those countries for which the
United States has waived visa requirements) to establish appropriate access to terrorist screening
information of the participating governments, in a manner consistent with each government's
laws, and to provide operational support to the participating govcmrnents. (U)

Terrorist Threat Integration Center (TTIC) Identities Database

(ID) The TTIC database will include. to the extent permitted by law, all information the U.S.
government possesses related to the identities ofindividuals known or appropriately suspected to
be or have been involved in activities constituting, in preparation for, in aid of, or related to
terrorism, with the exception of Purely Domestic Terrorism Information. (U)

(l I) As directed by the President, and to the extent permitted by law, Federal departments and
agencies will provide to the TTIC on an ongoing basis all relevant Terrorist Information in their
possession, custody, or control, with the exception of Purely Domestic Terrorism Information,
which will instead be provided directly to the FBI. Departments and agencies will continue to

Page 3 of 8

