prowde new or updated information, and adjust or retract information as needed, in as near to
real-time as possible. To this end. the Parties to this Memorandum will automate, to the
maximum extent possible while providing for necessary review, their processes and mechanisms
for securely sharing this information, including, but not limited to, the following:

5 x_p.taddv

(a) The Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
Director of Central Intelligence, in coordination with other relevant department and agency
heads, not later than l80 days from today, willjointly recommend to the President through the
Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, in consultation with the Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs, impr0vcmcnts, if any, to the existing cable-based system
of sharing terrorism-related information with other departments and agencies.

(b) The Attorney General will ensure that the FBI's information technology modernization
programs incorporate automated means of sharing appropriate information with the 'ITIC and
other departments and agencies, while providing for necessary review, in near real-time. (U)

(12) The 'ITIC identities database. and the FBI’s database containing Purely Domestic Terrorism
Information, will incorporate, to the extent permitted by law, available biometric data, including
data on persons who even if otherwise unidentiﬁed are known or appropriately suspected to be or
have been involved in activities constituting, in preparation for, in aid of, or related to tenorism.
The databases will have the capability of periodically incorporating advancements in biometric
technology. (U)

Relationship of the TTlC and FBI Databases to the Terrorist Screening Center Terrorist
Screening Database

(13) The TTIC identities database will serve, with the exception described in paragraph (10), as
the single source for the Terrorist Screening Center terrorist screening database. The Director of
the FBI will serve as the source for the Terrorist Screening Center terrorist screening database
with regard to Purely Domestic Terrorism Information. The Terrorist Screening Center terrorist
screening database will be a continuously updated, sensitive but unclassiﬁed subset of the
Terrorist Information possessed by the TTIC, and the Purely Domestic Terrorism lnfonnation
possessed by the FBI. (U)

Terrorist Screening Center Terrorist Screening Database
(14) The Director ofthe 'ITIC, the Director of the Terrorist Screening Center, and the heads of

Federal departments and agencies, or their designees, may nominate persons for inclusion in the

tenorist screening database, with notification, as appropriate, to the Director of the TTIC and/or
the Director of the FBI. (U)

Page 4 of 8

