(19) The Secretary of Homeland Security. acting through his representative assigned to the
Terrorist Screening Center, will review each nomination and determine whether to include that
person in those records that can be queried by. or made accessible by appropriate means. to other
State, local. territorial, and tribal ofﬁcials for homeland security purposes, including. but not
limited to. screening persons when they apply for driver's licenses or other forms of
identiﬁcation. (U)

XlPUDLlLl\-

C
\.

(20) The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through his representative assigned to the
Terrorist Screening Center, will review each nomination and determine whether to include that
person in those records that will be subject to queries Submitted by appropriate private sector
critical infrastructure operators or organizers of large events. The Secretary of Homeland
Security, in consultation with the other Parties to this Memorandum. and working with the
Director of the Terrorist Screening Center, will establish necessary guidelines and criteria to:

(a) govern the mechanisms by which private sector entities can submit such queries; and

(b) initiate appropriate law enforcement or other govemmental action. ifany. when a person

submitted {or query by a private sector entity is identiﬁed as a person in the terrorist screening
database. (U)

(21) The Secretary of State in consultation with the Attorney General. the Secretary of Homeland
Security, and the Director of Central Intelligence, acting through their representatives assigned to
the Terrorist Screening Center, will review each nomination and determine whether to include
that person in those records that can be queried by, or made accessible by appropriate means to.

foreign governments cooperating with the United States in the war on terrorists of global reach.
(U)

(Paragraphs (22) — (24) are classiﬁed and therefore redacted]

(25) The terrorist screening database will be accessible to screening processes on a real-time
basis. Screening processes will only be able to access those records that have been identified and
approved for such screening, as described in paragraphs (15) through (24) above. The Director
of the Terrorist Screening Center will strictly limit, to the maximum extent possible, the need to
provide US. Government terrorist screening data in list form to supported entities. (U)

Additional Implementation Provisions
(26) Per the President's direction. and consistent with guidelines developed by the Attorney
General in coordination with the other Parties to this Memorandum, the heads of Federal

departments and agencies will conduct screening using the Terrorist Screening Center database
at all appropriate opportunities. and shall report to the Attorney General not later than 90 days

Page 6 Of8

