from today the screening opponunitics at which such screening shall and shall not be conducted.

(U)

5 \tpuaddv

(27) The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security will conduct a review of the
organization. structure and progress of the Terrorist Screening Center at an appropriate time, and
report. to the President through the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security. The report
will include a recommendation on whether any modiﬁcations to the Terrorist Screening Center
should be made. (U)

(28) To the extent permitted by law, the Director ofthe TTlC will promptly assume
responsibility for the functions and personnel of the Department of State's TlPOFF _
counterter'rorist program. less those components devoted to providing operational support to
TlPOFF users and will ensure that all terron'st identity information contained within the TlPOFF
database is fully integrated into the TTlC database. The functionality of the TlPOFF program.
whereby consular ofﬁcials receive near real-time feedback to hits to TIPOFF entries, will be
maintained or improved upon. A senarato Anne! tn this Memorandum will be promotlv anreer‘
to regarding the modalities of TlPOFF relocation to the TTlC. and me specmc responsibilities of
each Party. (U)

(29) Beginning with the standup of the Terrorist Screening Center, Federal departments and
agencies will discontinue or transfer to the Terrorist Screening Center, to the extent permitted by
law and with appropriate consultation with the Congress, those operations that are duplicativc of
the Terrorist Screening Center's mission to provide continuous Operational support to users of
the terrOrist screening database, including but not limited to:

(3) those components of the Department of State‘s TlPOFF counterterrorist program devoted to
providing Operational support to TlPOFF users (with the exception of a small element that will
remain at the Department of State to facilitate intelligence support to the Bureau of Consular
Affairs);

(b) the FBl‘s Watchlist Unit; and
(c) the TranSponation Security Agency's No-Fly and Selectee list program. (U)

(30) Consistent with HSPD-6 and other presidential directives, this Memorandum does not alter
existing authorities or responsibilities of the heads of Federal departments and agencies to carry
out operational actiVities or provide or receive information. (U)

(3l)To the extent that existing notices are not sufﬁcient, the Parties to this Memorandum, which
will provide information to the TTlC. the FBI. and/or the Terrorist Screening Center under
HSPD-6 and this Memorandum. will publish in the Federal Register. prior to the standup ofthe
Terrorist Screening Center. "routine use" notices under the Privacy Act sufﬁcient to indicate that
such information will be pr0vided. (U)

Page 7 of 8

