(b) to memorialize the Psrties' agreement that they will, to the maximum extent permitted by
law and consistent with the President's direction for the establishment of the Terrorist 'lhreat
Integration Center, new the National Cameo-orient Center (NONI) and the Information
Sharing 1100. provide to the NC'I‘C on an ongoing basis all Terrorism Information (as deﬁned in
the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevemion Act (EVA) of 2004. Section lOl6(-a)(d)) in
their possession. custody. or control.

t- xgpuaddy

Procedures

(4)1bcPatticswillJothemaximnmcxtentpcrmiuedbylawand consistentwith the
establishment of the NCI‘C. the Information Sharing M00, and in furtherance of the information
shade: mandates in IRI‘PA. provide to the NCIC. on an ongoing basis. all Terrorism
Infu'rnndon. in their possession. custody. or annual. If adrﬁn'oonl procedures and mechanism
are needed beyond those directed in the Information Sharing MOU andIR‘IYA to accomplish
this imludingjntnmlinimdmeompamnmdpromthemhtmdinnﬁmﬁthde
Parties disseminating the Terrorism Information Faiginalors'). shall establish preaches to
guide the provision of such information. and the Parties shall establish procedttes and
mechanisms to provide such information

(5) A web-based version of the NCI‘C Identities Database. the Tmodst Identities Datamart
Environment (TlDE-Online). as mandated in the 'l'SC MOU. will be available to all individuals
who have obtained an IC certiﬁcatefor access to )1ch Online (NOL). formerly known as
Mwhiohis nCottnnrmityofInter-est comm ‘l‘heNCI‘C willmokeavailablete
the Parties ttponreqnest. menamcsandcieannoes ofpcrsonnelndthaeceestn'l'mxine. All
users will be responsible for complying with the conditions set for meets on TIDB-Online.

(6) When the Parties provide disseminated Terrorism Information to the NCI‘C. no speciﬁc
notiﬁcation Will occur between the NCTC and the Originator identiiying the tact that Terrorism
Information contained in those commmieations wan placed in TIDE.

(7) The Parties authorize the NCl‘C (and the FBI for hardy Domestic Terrorism Information. as
deﬁned in the TSC MOD) to provide to theTSC the iollowingdan (retested to at. 'l'ctrorist
Idurtiﬁers'). in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (8) below. forinclusion in the
T80: consolidated naturist screening database (TSDB):

(a) Names and aliases;

(b) Dates ofhirth;

(c) Places of birth;

(d) Unique identifying numbers such as alien registration numbers. visa numbers, sods] security
account numbers:

(e) Passport information. including passport mmbets. countries of issnsnce. dates and locations
of issuance. expiration dates. passport photos. and other relevant data;

(0 Countries of origin and nationalities;

