(1) Physical identiﬁers, such as sex. race. height. weight. eye color. hair color: scars. marks, or
utmos;

1- \tpuaddy

(h) Known locations. ie. addresses:

(1') Photographs or renderings ofthc indiVidull:
(l) Fingerprints or other biomadc data;

(It) Employmm data:

(I) Danae plate numhas;

(at) Any outer Terrorism Information that Originators speciﬁcally provide f0:- passagc to the
TSC.

(8) Once provided to the NCTC (or the FBI for Put-ﬂy Domestic Terrorism Infommion). the
Parties agree that the NCTC (or the FBI {or Purely Domestic Terrorism Inﬂammation) will deem
the Tamas: Identiﬁers lined inparagmph (7) For Ofﬁcial Use Only ($000) for the purposes of
providing the data to the TSC for inclusion in TSDB. These Terrorist Identiﬁers passed to the
T50 andretainedin'l‘SDB wilihedeetnodPOUO.

(9) The Originator may prohibit the Nut ﬁ'om passing the Terrorist ldentiﬁeda) identiﬁed in
(a) - (tn) aboveto the'l‘SC as P000 data for inclusion in TSDB if an appropriate oﬁeial to
authorizes. BaohOdglmtashallidenﬁtyitaTmistldenﬁﬁds)Muetoheprohibited from
being timed to the TSC for inclusion in TSDB by marking those items. “TIDE restricted."
Restrictions on use shallheimposed onlyto thement suieﬂynecessary to preventthe
unauthorized disclosure of in£onnation that clearly identiﬁm. or would reasonably permit ready
identiﬁcation oi; intelligence or emsiﬁve law edoteetnent sources, methods. activities or
cryptology that are particularly suscepsxhle to comersneasm that would nullify or measurably
mime their eﬂ'ectiVeneaa.

(10) The Patties age that subject to an Orip‘nator's ability to prohibit speciﬁc Terrorist
Identiﬁers from being included in TSDB, all Terrorist Idam'ﬁtzs listed in (7) my be passed to
the TSC, regardless of the date or classiﬁcation of tha dissaninated Terrorism Information.

(1 1) Nothing in Addendum B shall inhibit or delay the provision of Terrorism Information to the
NCT C.

(12) Absent prior approval by the Originator. information (including all information designated
classiﬁed or FOUO in TIDE and information in TSDB) may not be used in any legal or
administratiVe proceeding or process. including any judieial or quasi-judicial process,
presentation to grand or petit juries. submission as part ofan application for subpoenas. orders
for electronic mcillanee, search or arrest warrants. rat-escalation as evidence, or any use that
could result in public disclosure information from PISA collection. or derived therefrom may
only he used in legal or administrative proceeding or process with the advance authorization of
the Attorney General. Any redolent of information ﬂow TSDB interested in obtaining
authorization to use that information in a legal or administran've proceeding or process must
contact the T50 to obtain the approval of the Originator. HTSDB information is from BSA

collection, or derived therefrom. the TSC through FBI Headquarter, will obtain the necessary

