f- xtpuoddv

Attorney Gaga] amboﬁzaﬁon. Any reproduction. dissemination. or omnnicntion (including.
but not limited to. oral bn‘eﬁng) of any information from TSDB mint be accompanied by a
statement ofthesc restriction Nothing in this paragnph shall inhibit the sharing of a. limited set
of Tamtist ldmﬁﬁers: name; date ofhinh; passport number; passport country of
attain/citizenship. with state. local andtrlhal ainhotities, or foreign governments for terrorism
meaning purposes as permitted by law. regulation or agreement ofthePanies.

(B) When an individual in TSDB has been positively identiﬁed during a screening encounter.
the Pmies will provide the NCTC with Tutorism lnfottnation collected during the encounter,
such as photographs. ﬁngerprints. copies of pocket litter. copies ofwrittm data, any reports of
'Icnroﬁsm information provided by that individual, at other iteun of potential interest. for
inclusion in TIDE. The NCI‘C and/or the T80 will. in paztnezshipwith dqtartmcnts and
agencies which are notPatties to Addendum B. butwhioh conduct screening using TSDB.
cstablishpmeednres to ensure that. when an individual in TSDB has been positively identiﬁed
dm-inga screening mm. those departments andagencies willpmvide theNC'l‘C andall
lppmpriatc agencies that have a cotmtetterroristn mission, with Terrorism Information as
dumbed above.

(14) The om ofthe me shall establish mm stratum. Wins. but not limited to.
training. standard opaating prone-item. and caller authentication pmccdurcs. and shall
implement technological safeguards. lnclndhg. but not limited to. the use of ﬁrewalls and public
keyenuypﬁontominimize thematnhoxiud disclosure ofinﬁotmatitm. andtoredneethe
vulnerability of 'l‘SDB to unauthorized access or exploitation The establishment of these
safeguatnds shall in no way inhibit or delay the ptovision of information to tho NCIC Or the TSC.

(25) AddaodmnB amendsDiroetoromeallntelligenceDireetivezm (DCDZ’QBy
"Placing the tent "lettorin threat-related Won." wherevu it appeon in DCID 2/4, with
the term Terrorism lninrrnation. ea deﬁnedin the IRTPA.

Implementation

(16) Addende is effective fromthedate ofsignature byall Parties and applies to all
disseminated Tetrorism Infotmation. regudleas of the date of the docmnent in which it is
contained. Addendum B may be signed in countapms.

(17) The NCI‘C, the TSC, and the Parties, in coordination with appropriate Orig'natora. shall
rqtoxt to the Homeland Security Advisor from time to time as appropriate. on the progtess made
to implement Addendum B.

(18) Nothing in Addendum B alters. or impedes the ability at authotity of fedaal depat-onents
and agencies to perform their responsibilities until: law. consistent with applicable legal
authorities and Presidential guidance. Speelﬁeally, nothing in Addendum B alters the

ilxltgpnmtion sharing requiranems ofthe Homeland Sectnity Act oethe requirements of the
A.

