SIDToday - Interview with a SID "Hacker" -- Part 1: How Does TAO Do Its Work?

computers. — (pictured), a counterterrorism subject-
matter expert in TAO's Requirements and Targeting organization,
spoke with SIDtoday recently to explain how TAO carries out its work:

 

 

1. (Ul/FOUO) What do TAO Requirements 8: Targeting analysts like
you do? -- What's your role?

(U) Our role in R&T is to serve as a liaison with the TOPIs in 82. We work with the
TOPIs to ﬁnd out what they really want in terms of ONE [computer-network
exploitation] collection and then work within TAO to ﬁgure out how to get it... To
give you a quick overview, there are different elements in TAO:

- (U/lFOUO) First there are are the developers who create the software and
the hardware -- the tools that TAO uses to carry out our collection.

- (U/IFOUO) Next are the operators in the ROC [Remote Operations Center]
who actually use the tools. They do the actual collection of intelligence from
the targets' systems, while showing good OPSEC [operations security] and
making sure our tools themselves are protected.

0 (U/IFOUO) And then there is my element, Requirements and Targeting. We are
the analysts and planners for operations. We ﬁnd out what the TOPIs are
looking for, do the network analysis, and draw up a plan for getting that
collection.

0 (U/lFOUO) Supporting it all are the folks who provide the infrastructure. They
provide the computers, networks, etc. and keep everything running.

(U/lFOUO) Each group brings a different skill to the table. Regarding the tools we
use, the developers know the coding for them, the operators know how to use
them, and R&T just knows that they exist. R&T's focus is on where we can
apply the tools to get the intelligence we want.

(U/lFOUO) In TAO, we all have to work hand-in-glove. Often the analysts are eager
to grab whatever intelligence we can, while the operators are more conscious of
the risks involved, so we meet somewhere in between. Each side brings their own
perspective and it creates checks and balances.

(U/lFOUO) The ROC does after-action reviews of operations -- every action taken is
automatically recorded -- to make sure things were done appropriately. Operators
have to be certiﬁed -- and they can have their certiﬁcations pulled -- so they have a
strong incentive to show good OPSEC.

2. (Ul/FOUO) Do RSzT analysts participate when operations are
carried out in the ROC? If so, how does it play out?

(U//FOUO) Yes, the R&T analysts actually sit side-by-side with the ROC operators
when an operation takes place. We're there to provide knowledge of the
networks, and the operators, as I mentioned, know how to use the tools to
extract the data.

(U//FOUO) Nowadays there are dedicated analysts and operators working on

20f4

