SIDToday - Interview with a SID "Hacker" -- Part 1: How Does TAO Do Its Work?

speciﬁc targets. 80, for example, I work the CT [counterterrorism] target, and we
have counterpart operators who focus on CT, too. {In the past, we analysts would
have shown up for an operation and been assigned an operator randomly out of a
pool.) The beneﬁt of this new approach is that the analysts and operators can
develop working relationships and collaborate ahead of time on an upcoming
operation.

(U/lFOUO) In terms of how an operation is scheduled, our analysts decide to work
a project and start to do research on targets to go after. Next we get approvals
through the ROC mission directors to pursue operations against those targets. The
mission directors are a small group of people with lots of experience. They assess
the risks involved in the operation and approve or deny it. Once we have the
approval, the analysts plan an operation in coordination with an operator and,
when they are ready, arrange a speciﬁc time to carry it out. We have the ﬂexibility
to conduct the operation at the optimal time.

{U//FOUO) In the early days TAO used to be just a bunch of hackers! We did things
in a more ad hoc manner... one guy did it all. Now we're more systematic in how we
do things.

(S/lSI/IRE L) In the CT world, we usually go after the infrastructure (like an ISP
[internet service provider]) or after the speciﬁc target in end-point collection --
extracting data from a speciﬁc "box" [computer or device]. Normally collection is
automated for end-point, but sometimes it's an interactive, real-time event when
the target is up on the net. The latter happens quite a bit in CT. The operations
might take place at 2AM or 6AM, since that is when the target is active. Some CT
targets use really slow dial-up connections from remote places in the Pakistani
tribal areas, and we have to move quickly when the opportunity presents itself.

 

(U) ...Do you need linguists to participate in your operations, to
translate the names of the ﬁles, etc?

{S/lSI/REL) Not as much as you might think. We don't evaluate the content of the
data, we just collect it. Usually we have an idea of what types of ﬁles and
information the TOPIs are interested in -- like text ﬁles -- and we try to grab all of it
for analysis later. We don't take the time during the operation to sort out the good
from the bad.

(U) Stand by for the conclusion of this interview, appearing tomorrow. [Editor's
note: click HERE]

"(U/lFOUO) SIDtoday
articles may not be
republished or
reposted outside

30f4

