(U) Compliance Issues

(SHEIHREU SIGJNT Management Directive 424 (“SIGINT Development ——
Communications Metadata Analysisr] provides guidance on the NSAECSS
implementation of the “Department of Defense Supplemental Procedures
Governing Conununications Metadata Analysis” [SPClitiA], as approved by the
U.S. Attorney General and the Secretary of Defense. The SPCMA oovers
communications metadata collected under Executive lDrder 12333 authorities.

{5 f ,r" S] f ,I' REL] As does any new authority or capability, the Supplemental
Procedures [SPCMA) come with a cost in terms of additional care that we must
talre with respect to compliance responsibilities and obligations. The
primary new responsibility is the requirement:

- to enter a foreign intelligence (Fﬂjustiﬁcaﬁon for making a query
or sterling a chain,

and
- to perform spot-checks of user queries.

Additionally, the analyst must remain cognizant of minimisation procedures
associated with retention and dissemination of US person information.
SPCMA covers analytic procedures and does not affect existing procedures
for collection, retention or dissemination of US person information.

(5,! SL-Ir f REL) SPCMA obligations also include the need for additional training
on what the procedures do and do not cover, advisory banners on SPCIiiA
enabled metadata databases, query auditing, and annual reports to the
Department of Justice. Details on this implementation are included in
sate—424.

(U) Next Steps

(SKISIHREU In order to take advantage of the Supplemental Procedures
(SPCMA), analysts will need to be identified for use of SPCliiA through their
mission—management chain and complete the online informational brieﬁng.
This will be managed through GATEKEEPER andfor' the Account Admin
processes. In addition to the required online informational brieﬁng, a series of
live information brieﬁngs are being planned. The ﬁrst of these will be held in
the Friedman Auditorium on '9' January from moo—1130, and is open to all SID
employees.

