IJHCLASSIFIEDHFGR OFFICIAL USE DNL‘h'fSENEITIVE SECURITT IHFDEMATIHN

lJt'J'F'EJIU D, with-taut regard he the classiﬁcatiun efthe seurce material frem Which it is drawn-
t't-zttttexth lﬂliN'i'll-‘Iliﬂli include these listed in Addendum E {r'.e.. names and aliases: dates ef
birth; places efbirth; unique identifying numbers; passpert inferrnatien; ceuntries uf erigin
and natienality; physical identifiers; I-mewn Ieeatiens; phetegraphs er renderings; ﬁngerprints
ar ether biemetrie data; ernplaymertt data; license plate numbers; and any ether TlittttﬂRlS'l'
tttttN'rtrIt-zss that extetwn'teus specifically previdc far passage in the TEE}. Fer example.
email addresses and phune numbers are increasingly useful fer screening purpeses.
exttttrtst't‘etts sheuld marlt email addresses and phene numbers as UHFUUU whenever
passthte and pass these TessestsT tesa't'trreas te HCTC ta ferward in the TEE fer inclusien
in 'I‘Slilfit. ctxtcttrta't‘nxxare cneeuraged te previde all relevant and unclassified infermatien.
te include secial media infermatien when appreptiatc.

III. CﬂNSTITUTIHHALL'r' PROTECTED ACTIVITIES

LIE! First Amendment. First Amendment pretected activity alene shall tic-t he the has-is fer
neminating an individual fer inclusien en the 'l'crrerist Watchlist.” The fellewing are
examples ef pretectcd Censtituti-ettal activities:

Littl Fnee Speech. The exercise ef free speech. guaranteed by the U15. Censtitutiert.
includes mere than simply speaking en a centreversial tepic in the tmvn square. It
includes such symbelie er ether written. eral and expressive activities as carrying
placards in a parade, sending letters te a newspaper editer, wearing a tee shirt with a
pelitieal message. placing a bumper sticker critical ef the President an ene’s ear. and
publishing heelcs nr articles. The cemmen thread in these examples is eenveying a
public message er an idea threugh wards er deeds. Speech that may be repugnant te
ideas at the majerity may still he pretected by the LLB. Censtitutien. Fer the purpese ef
this Watchiisting Guidance-1.1m right cf preteeted free speech under the LLB.
Cnnstitutian applies te u.s. massens wherever they are laeaterl and to nen— its. reasexs
Ieeatetl inside the United States. The right ef preteeted free speech, hctwever, is net
unlimited and may net extend te semc Iawle ss actien.

Hill Exercise el' Religien. The little exercise cf religien eevers any ferm ctf warship efa
deity — even farms that are net widely ltnewn ctr practiced - as well as the right net te
war-ship any deity. Prntccted religieus exercise elm extends te dress that is wern ctr iixxl
that is eaten fer a religieus purpese. attendance at a facility used fur religieus practice,
ebservanee at" the Sabbath, raising meney fer evangelical er missicmary purpeses. and
presel ytiaitt g.

I .19.} Freedem ef the Press. Freedem ef the press includes such matters as reasenable
access ta news-matting events. the making efdeeumentarics, and the pasting ef“blctgs.“

 

'5 “the First Amendment tie-es net apply ta nan-us. reasens eatsirte the United States. Etet'ere submining naminatiena.
Nﬂh-IIH areas may censult with their Depsnment er Agency ceunsel te- deterrnine whether a speciﬁc persen is a e.s.
arias-rm and whether the anesthetic-d activity is entitled te- First Amendment prutecticrn.

UHCLASSI FIEBHFDR DFFICIAL USE DNLYISENSITIVE SEE URITT INFURMATIDH

Page I It!

