 

{el Sec-pr: qr "Serrated Ity'bamtl'm. " Ceneiatertt with the prien‘ty enabliehed
in Seetim't Sta}. informatien relating te let-tartan. Weep-en: at Haas Dealttaﬂiett,
vulnerabilities, er ether ﬁartelieas ef the Deliarteaeet et' Hemetand Serenity shall he
premmed It- be “enynered intannatien“ under thia AgremtenL If. after apt-Ming tltt'a
pretttrnptieet. disagreement remains between payer-er! Httitiea all-eel whether particular
ieﬁarrrtltitttt ia “eeyered intent-rattan.“ aaeh diaaereeremt ahalt be remitted great-at tn
Seetirtrt Ht”.

.13

'5

'5

1":

:
.E-l
'Lrll'tt

[d] Efertr'ua date afferent-tremble sharing eel'lgettem. Mauritian-idle;
peat-mans at this Agreenmt mandating farmer agreertteart en tee-titanium. preeederee.
er ether mini. the Pﬂ'ﬂﬁ reeegniite lint the ehligatiert t-e paerrtptly begin the ﬁall'raa'tge
attain-matter: during eutideied by the DHS Legislatiert came ittte t'eree en January 24.
limit]. and that ebiigetiana under this AM will he in three “part the sign-nature et all
parties.

tel Eire-ting Requirement: Bea-teen Streamer-r Baht CEtl-‘liiﬂﬁlt‘. with the
HHS Legislatien and ether relevant atatutery atttheritiea. P'retidmtial Directives. the
Preaident'a aneeeneed pedietea fer meeting against terreria-t threat: tn the Mmelm
ant] thit Amateur-rt. the parties agree that this Ageement requires that eeyered
inl'ertnaliett. inehad‘etg. hut net limited te. terreriam inl-‘mnatiee. WMEJ inﬁanhatien.
inhaetreetute. and wine-abilities int-'enttlrtiett. he pretride-d by any eeyered entity that
celleeta er mlﬁee the! ia'tﬁarmatiert te any eti'ter navel-eel entity that has a needtte-Iteew
that intent-alien {er int'ermatierr rel-tilt: te that subject matter]. heated an a bread .
interpretatien e l' the miaatien at the ether enyered entity. reﬁt-dies: ef:

[ll It . _--. I. r-I.r u .I"It!'.-.'l,|.'i11'.'_'._'u|'..'_r1- -_-
Ceye't'ed inferential-t must he petty-ideal a: required in. this Agent-tern regardless ef
the type trf mmmuniutitet in which it ia originally repeated lay the prey-Hing
enemy. The fact that particular eeyererl inferrrtatiee may he eentainert enginally
in a pattieelat- type et'eentrnunieatim ahall lint. under any eireumetaneee. he I
greunds either In withheld er delay the sharing efarty eeyered infetmatien. A:
illustrative example: truly. eeyereal infenmliert Must be preyitted by CM. within
the time frames agreed ten. 1whether aueh inful'tnﬂllﬂlt is eentained etiginally in
eemmtltieatiena refute-rt In as "Tile,“ “in-tel cables." "epe eat-lea." er any ether
type el' erarnmunieatien- letmuiae. tattered infer-realien meat be pa'uvid'ed by the
FBI, within the time frames eyelet! te, whether and: inﬁannatiert ie pentainurl
ri ginall y in eetna'nunieatiena referred It: It: "IDES.“ "Ellie," "LHl'ttla." er any ether
type [If mmunieat‘ien;

iii} W
W Cat-reed entities shalt eeuttinuatly
endeatrer te impreye tetdmelegieat melee etaeeeaa te Il'l'etd maairetm
ﬂexibility. speed, and yeturne et' latt'en-natien ahered. eeeeiateit with the strtetiy
necessary preteetien et'ireelligeneeeraeteitive law enfeteernerrt aeereea and
mettle-d5. and with eeetien Ha] and ether telemt preyiaietta et'thia ﬁgmement. .

     

   

 

