 

whorntlre‘rni'oi-rnation has beenprovided. Thepartieashall agree. as sconasis
practicable. upon recommendations. it‘anv. for changes to Executive Etrder IEPSE.
Diooctoe of Gertlral intelligence Directive are {and eornpleroenlsrjr or ntce-easor directives
dealing with Originator Controls. the stir-celled “third agency role." and other policiesor‘
procedures goventi on the sharing ofreeeived information with additional merrier-its] in
order to comely with the DHS Legislation. and to con-v out the President‘s annorrrrced
policies liar protecting against terrorist threats to the homeland. and the provisions of this
Pigment-mt-

:.

E
. E:
Q:

lni] Other ﬂeets-orients to Share herein-retirees. it. covered entity“: vohurtervor
obligatoryr provision of covered ministration to attoli'iereovered entity does not in itself
discharge or diminish any other obligation the providing entity ﬁlly have to provide tltat I
information. or- anv part ot‘it. to ahvother' department. agency or other public or private
organizstior't or individual under any statute. Prﬁidential Directive. orotber agreement
Although all covered entities will attempt to identiﬁr and call attention to information
rel evant to the mission of other mvtaed entities. tlte responsibility to share int‘onnatiorr
relevant to the miss-inn tn‘ responsibililies Elfin]! toover'ed tetttit'jgir in addition to DHS
remains tho retponsibilitv of the originator or initial federal recipient oftl'ie information
and does not shift to DHS by vir'lue ofDHE“ receipt on}: information. The ponies
agree. however. that. to tltegt'eltest extent possible. other sharing obligations shall be
harmonised and coordinated 1rvith those covered by this regiment. including the agreed
preference For using the TTII': and lTlTs H in ﬂatmatioovahering meohoninrrs. in order te
reduce duplication. l‘aer'litete deeerrﬂietion. and inmeeee efﬁciency. . I

{n} Pit Thltl'Ti-Iet forbearance. Lav- enﬂvcecnenteeleted information related
to HHS mission. permitted or required to be provided to intelligeiee ageneiu under the
PATH lﬂT Act and its impletneriti rig guidelines shall also he considered covered
information under this reﬁnement and shall. therefore. be provided to the Department and
other covered entities. in aomtdenoe with the DHS Legislation and other relevant
statutory- provisions. and this Hyena-rent.

{oi t'hher intelligence refer-recline. Nothing in this Agreement shall be read
to restrict the access of the Secretary or his designee to information the Score-tent
llt'dilleﬁi'jil' Would receive as a microbe- of the intelligence Communinr. including nationai
security and Foreign intelligence intern-ration.

{pl tafenrreriee Hearing Mechanisms. As soon as practicable. the parties shall
agree upon speciﬁc mechanisms. consistent with Section 1 and other relevant provisions
ol'this Asmem, for-how different tvpr: of covered heron-nation will be altered.
including technical and administrative arrangements. and. as appropriate. designation of
Foecl points. to masirniee the effectiveness and era-ordination for-providing coveted
information Subsequent arrangements For information sharing eta}- be reached upon the
approval of the parties or their deeimtees. The parties shall wort: to develop. as part of
this proeera. effective meehaerierrs for- covered entities to identify covered inl-‘orrnaticn
held by them and to ee-isore. to the greatest degree feasible. the provision of such
in I'ocrttelltln. II-I-titl'trttiialt speciﬁc request. to other covered. entities. The parties further agree.

 

