m:

I
‘I

:u-

; 'D

mmtwmmmitammmmmmmmrm %

. inﬁsrrnstioo shoring. ooiroroo Httitios shall ITI'U-l'ﬂpllfhuild on moohmiasns and woootltsss ﬁ'
ﬂitﬂd}! in plans to iootttiﬁr and proviso to DHS ootottod int‘onnstion dust is mastoid as U-

roosivoti Mill-“m in tho ooursoot‘oarrying out thsirmimions.

{'11 Methods aim-ﬂing Informal“ Tilt: plsﬁns [atomic and lgl'ﬂt: that
thoso ass l'l'lll'ljl' possihls rootJtods for “providing,“ infos'tnstion, inolotling. hot not limitod
to. bond-doling. oral lain-stings, transmission by soot“ dIII-Iinlt. snot aftTonling routine
and umiotod assess to mum-indium. including than littillitj'iI to trumﬁcr suoh
infonnation to s torioinit ﬁllitjl' as nooossuy. and by hill and oomploto os-iooation or
analysts orothorporsonnot and full iﬂlmﬂﬂﬂ oi‘. no soot-so to. information. as woll as.
for mph}; snoring that tho Emmi}: roooitros all dain thrau bristling mats-rials
{inolutling lhtrut suit-ions and mmighl roost-ts]. Tho pnrtiau ﬁlt'll'tﬂ' agnoo Iltot
toqusrstnonts to “pros-riots“ information undor this Automotil may ho satisﬁntl. oopontiing
onﬂasnrpoofinfoomﬁonuimunhytho totooi'asinﬂo modsonism. such as visit-ts
TTIC. oortsistsnt with sooliott Jiﬂ of this Ago-stunts. or a oomhtnstioo of tnoohanisnts
shunt}- in plan: llldil'lﬂ-l' Modulator this hymns. Tho partios shall agree. as pan of
tho dousloomont oi'thoso mechanisms Hid proooouros. as to which triothotil1 as
ootn'oinotiost ofmotharls. or pout-Hing information will ho sul'l'ioiosu for plrticullr typos
or mogul-ins nfinihrrnntion.

[r] ”5'me! mistrﬁr fojiamtotiorr Sharing. Littlil sutth Limo Is
rnodil'ioo by tho pnrtios. tho rosnosotihlo ofﬁcials for information shoring under this
. .I'tgt'oﬂnonl on! Is: follows:

{i} For ths Emotanr of Homeland Sootority, tits Undos'soorotsry For
toronrnation Analysis and infrastnsotuto Prottotion. or snotl-tsr individual
dasignotoo by tho Enact-I1! to not in this capacity;

iii] For tho httornsj ﬁmorsl. Esooutiin: Assistsot Dirootor for
Cmmornit'ism and Countsrintolliimoo; and

{iii} For this Dirottor ol'ft'mral tntolligonoo. t'ltts hztsmislll' Dirootor ot‘
Emmi lntslligonoo for Homoimd. Security.

It's} Fmisirjrr of Co- tton-ti toforosorioo ro tho DHE Dims-tantra of Iﬂfﬂrrﬂdﬂotr
.rlrttlﬁust's and MES-mimosa": ﬁwmiorr. Unlil Earths! lithium! by tho parties. as thtit
dﬂigntﬂ. all sow-nod information nroaitlod. including inﬂattnotion providotl. undo:
ourront matures. to misting slottionts I'l'll'ﬁfﬂl'ltd to BEE. n.3,. tho Unitod Stuns Coast
Guard and the LES. Customs swim, shall also ho musty provisos to tho Dirootorsto
of Infonntlion Analysis and lnﬁastruoruro Protootion. inolutl'utg. ifagtnoti by tho
Soot-story. via tho THC. Tho Urﬂmﬂrﬂllﬁr liar information Analysis and infrastructuro
Frotootiott. or ariothor tttdiuittual assist-laud hgr tho Sccrctnly to not in this oapooity, shall
writ-It with otttitils not within this Director-to lt't tsﬂuro Effective too-ordinltliun of

. inﬁtt'tt'tuitirt.

 

