 

it] ﬁnniﬂad try'emetiinw. The head nfeach eevued tellitzir shell pal
procedures in place In creature that each individual recipient nt‘e'lassiﬁed inferrnatinn has.
and maintains. alatrnpriate security clearance:. naining. and need-tn-ttnnw tereecive
classiﬁed infetmctiert at the level at which the recipient will receive such inﬁmnatiem
individuals shall he dﬁ'igulicd at eatdt cevered entity at seveial hats at senintity tn
receive classiﬁed infnmatieet judged by the eriginating age-icy in be sufﬁciently
sensitive tn require limited dish-ilautinn. in rare cases. the parties expect tint eattcrnely
sensitive infn'ntiatinn may he previried nnly tn the Emirates}! er. a appreprriete. the head
nt'annther envered entity. The head et‘eaeh envcred entity else shall ensin-ethat all
mechanism and pmeatlme fnr receiving. staring. and handling clessiﬁetl int‘ematien
tnecl established legal and residues-y standards. The pelicics and precedents Wing
access tn envcred irtﬁamtatieai under this Agreement. including such intnnnatien that is
cimiﬁed. shall applywithnut regard in whether that httun'nati-e-n is made available in
written. nral. er electrenic Fern-i. nrtn the means er mechanism lay which it is
mmrnunieattatl tn the I'Iﬂipiﬂ'li.

2]:-
“U
1]
ﬁt
El
ﬁt.
0::

{it} Threshei'ds. lrt elder te eneure that the Department is prev-ided with all
infantiatinn necessary tn carry nut its respnnsilailities. but is net inundated with
unmanageable vnltcries nt'int-‘nresalt'nn heinw deceit-elite reaeenahlc te perfenn its
missieit. as seen as practicable. the Secretary shall advise the ether pﬂﬁﬂ. hidividualiy
er cnllectively. as tn establishing additional thruheids tnr infnnnatinn sharing. ennsistettt
with the DHS Leﬁslalit'tn. Fer example. the Seetetuy may determine that lntwlevel
tnfennatinn eta-teeming purely indigmetss foreign lﬂTtlt'iatl pinup: with an apparent .
capability in mm: nperattnns against the United States is that retina tn DHS’ miaeien. .
Such ﬁttther emeenmtt shall he cultsistent with the DHS Leiaialaljen and edict reinvent
statutery authnritim. Presidential Directiven. the President‘s antimieed pnltciae fer
Iii-erecting against ternsrist tlv'eats tn the hetttelend. and this agreement. an anytime
t'eliewing such initial agreement. the parties may agree In additienal int'nnaiatinn sharing.
es tn mere er less restrictive thresheltlai es the vnlutrteef intanrnatin-‘t invelved and the
needs el' DHE Hecate clearer. an lens as such agreements are ccrteietent with the DHS
Legislatinn end this Agreement. Such earnest-ante may be inane hy designates at the
parties-

[vl Privacy. All intiannatinn sharing ptn-auant tn this .I'iﬂl'tﬂl'ltnl shalt be
cunsiattinl with applicahie privacy laws.

“1- WW

{al- Ceere'i'atntt'en iced Decenﬂictien Feitcy. Censiateen with the President's
di reclicin that nu' hiya-tel [tt'iea‘ity is the preteclitan cf [he Attica-ican pet'splc fret-m
petentiaily It'luEt-Itasttttinilr terrnrist attacks. clever-ed entities shall take all neeusary measures
in enstee that tcatnn'st threats tn cur hemeland are ﬂddl'mﬂl' cenperativeiy. efﬁciently.
and with the understand eves-riding pin-pnee ef pttventistg. pteempting. and disrupting
these threats. Tn that end. the parties agree that an hemeland secretly-related preventinn.
preemplinn. er disntptien activity cf any eevcaed entity shall he presumed te be the htﬂ
cplinri in any git-rm ease. ctr etherwise deter-ca! ef high: precedence. impedance. er .

 

