UHCLASSIFIEIWFDR ﬂFFICIAL USE DNIJYISENSITIVE SECURE“? IHFﬂRMATIﬂN

i .Eﬂ

Lille Freedom of Peaceful Assembly. Freedom of peaceful assembly, often called the
right to freedom of association, includes gathering with others to protest government
action, or to rally or demonstrate in favor of, or in opposition to, a social cause. The
right to peaceful assembly includes more thanjust public demonstrations — it includes,
as well, the posting of group websites on the lntcmet, recruiting others to a lawful cause,
marlteting a message, and funtlraising, which all are protected First Amendment
activities if they are conducted in support of an organizational, political, religious, or
social cause.

1.19.5 Petition the Government for Redness of Grievances. The right to petition the
government for redress of grievances includes, for csample, writing letters to Congress,
carrying a placard outside the city hall that delivers a political message, recruiting others
to onc's cause, and lobbying Congress or an Executive Agency for a particular result.

Equal Protection. The Equal Protection Clause ofthe LLEi. Constitution provides in part that:
“No State shall make or enforce any law which shall deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection ofthe laws,“ 'l‘hc US. Supreme Court has made it clear that
this applies as well to the oliicial acts of [1-5. Goventment personnel. Nominations, there fore,
shall not be based solely on race, ethnicity, national origin, or religious affiliation. Any
activities relating to this Guidance that are based solely on such considerations are invidious
by definition, and therefore, unconstitutional.

IV. WATCHLISTI HG FULICIES

1.1]

LEE

Watchlistiug Disclosures. The general policy ofthe {1.5. Government is to neither conﬁrm
not deny an individual‘s watchlist status- In addition to the provisions in Addendum El to the
lti't'.‘ Hill}, which require NﬂMIHATUR approval before TSDB infonnation can be used in any
process that might result in public disclosure, the Hill? Memorandum of Under-slowing on
Terrorist iit'orcltli'ot Redress Procedures [Retires-s Mﬂmm requires st; metal-latte: to contact the
‘I'SC if it receives a request for information or records that might reveal an individual‘s
watchlist status. Approval would also be required from any entity which provided
information used by n nositnnt'oe during a nomination- Per the Rodi-ass Melt}, ontotnnriet;
and HUMINATING seasons are obligated to support scenarios determinations — both at the
administrative level and in litigation — and provide appropriate inforroation, including
unclassiﬁed substitutes as necessary. TEE, in conjunction with blC'i'E, the NoMtHnTe-tts, and
the Department of Justice [Elm }, as appropriate, will ensure that representations regarding an
individual-'s potential watchlist status are properly coordinated and approved.

Legal or Use Restrictions. Because information in the TSL‘IE comes overwhelmingly from
intelligence sources and methods or sensitive law enforcement techniques. Paragraph ll of

 

'* See Appendix a. Real-era MﬂU.

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR ﬂFFIC] AL. USE ﬂHLYlS-EN SITWE SECURITY INFDHMATI'DN

Page! ii

