the Smud- ulher unvererl entitiu shell benet'ttierl irrtrrtertiately ef the
dissemination. -

{iv} Analytic cerrclusiens may ticshsred with tent-set. state. and lecal
law entitreemestt efﬁeisls without the price sppsevai ttf the Eeerctsrjr nf
Hertrelsnti Eternity. provided. however. that it is the irrtentinh efthe parties that
DHS he ptevidett with the earliest pessilsls advance entice nt‘tlte peter-His] efsttch
cummunieeliens urtl. where possible, DHS will he included in the development ef
the eenunusricalieus thruugh the Iii-I5 liaisees at FBI Headquarters. The
Sweets? ul'Hum-eiantl Emu-try. at his deeigrree [ineiutiing s DHS representative
in eiTTF ”designated hythesecrctsry tedesu}.muetapprevc further
dissentnu'ren ut‘suelr mulytic easteiusr'ena ter ether nun-«law enfureente-t state and
lc-eel eﬂ'tcillserte the public.

{v} Hnthirrg in this Agent-rent ahlil pit-event eevereri entities tit-cm
ceurttinstirrg an analytic eeneltuinns with. or seeking the views er. ether Federal
Gavernrrrant entities in evaluating terrerism er ether hun'tttllt‘tdaﬂunit'y-relﬂed
in ﬁtnt'tatiera.

{It} Estuttt'crhﬂtehr‘ qt‘tlt’eehsrttr'snts ﬁtt- Eipertrh'enet Ceasefirretr‘en and
Desertmetiert As seen as pnctieshle. the parties shall agree tlpm‘t speciﬁc mechanisms.
including lﬂﬂl’liﬂl. Itimhtielrlt'r'm. Ind. ﬂ Input-pine. desigttttti-un effect] petites. tct
mnttimt'te the eﬁectivutces ttfttpﬂl'ﬂliﬂltll ceetdinet'rnn anti deeunmctiun. “these will
eever heth evuscee end dnmestic eperalinns related in hunrcissrrt muritv. smeequent
agreements hamper-Sunni enerﬂinetiert Ind deennﬂictiett maybe ruched upue Ihc
appruvel cf the parties us their designate.

{t1} fruits-anemia Eta-arirrg Dispute Remit-rich. Cemistent with the DHS
L-ﬂgit-Iltitttt and Dthtcrlelcvltt mum nutl'ttrrrititts. Pmﬂdﬂﬂial Dirccﬂvtst. the
President‘s nnnuuncetl pntieies t‘er mete-cling against terreﬁst threats in the ltemelerrrl. the
ehligetiun Iu pmtcct lntetligenee er sensitive lsvr errt‘ereernent senrees and metth frutn
unauthutieett diseluswe, and with Seetinrt It's}, and ether rclcvrsrt seuinne ei‘this
ﬁgment. iswes cumming the app! iﬂt'ittn hf the terms afthis. Age-ﬂuent in. any
specific eecteet with respect in whether psi-tiertsr enverett infunnltitttt sheulrt be
previded ten the W er its my ethereevered entity she'll be hlndletl under the
thltew'ing proceduru:

[ii A huitler at particular eevered intuit-incline st isms. whether within
at {tuttitie the entirjtttriginlling that infnmtltitttt. shill rttfer the matter by the muﬂ
esp-ediﬁces means tn the head cfthc er-ttitgrr erigimting the infunnetien tut
thlt uﬁicihl's design“) [hr ﬂpﬂﬂ‘liﬂtﬁ meet-II.

{iii The reviewing efﬁeial shall. withuet cseeptien. render a deﬁnitive
decisien en the request within 24 trees: ut' receiving the referral and. in tight cf
the access pmvisiena in the DHS Legislatien. shell resulvc any dents-t in fever of

 

:1:-
"Et-
“Et-

I'l-

:-

E

in!

Le

