 

2:-
'2
't-t'
3
ti.

pent-riding the requested intitm‘thtiot'i.

177'"!

. [iii] If the originating WE reviewing oﬂieial declines te tiroiritle
the entered inﬁan'nltiett requested, that ofﬁcial shall. within the It hoois Ellotletl
in: response, provide the Department or other covered with --

{A}! the feet that the speciﬁc inl‘onoatioo is being withheld:

{B} a staeeitsot end speeiﬁe statement“ tDFIl'te reasons Fer the
winihalding: and

{E} os mutinof the int'onositioet requestedaa the hen-Inf the
originating ageless {es thet efﬁciet‘s eesignee) reasonably concludes can
he presided given the. President‘s auto-mood policies fos protecting
against tﬂ'mrist IlateEts te thehomeiltttl. the DHE Legislation anti other
relevant statutory authorities. anti relevant Ftesitlential Direetitret.

{it-r} If, at that point. It compromise is net reached estp-editietusly. the.
dispute will be resolved either by the Secretary. Attorney Genes-II, and [it'll hy
mutual decision or through referral to the Assistant In the President for Notional
Security hﬂairs and Assistant to the President ﬁH Homeland Seeuritit Affairs. or
their desigiees. for Imitation Hontitlisttntling any ell-ta provision of ilsis
moon-tent. the Attomcst Gﬂ‘tﬂli. Seesaw. orDCL or their deputies may.
whenever attq.r eftitem deems it oeoesoary eradirisahle [lint'icititttlj-r when a
fundamental matter of polieyis implicated or time is oftlte essence}. intervene to

. raise and resolve any issuea I“ aoeess to eo'tered information by mutual decision or
through the National Entititi‘iti:I Canticil suitor Homeland Sea:t.tri‘t;.r Couneil system.

 

[e] WEI-ﬂ Nothing in this Agreement in my way arrests the
respensibilitics alt-ti authorities Fer etiottiittation et' United Sister. countH—tea-terism
activities established in National S-ettttritjtI Presidenlill Direetisrc {HSPDJ E.

5- WWW-
The pat-tint intend that all omissions oil” this Agreement he inteqlt'eted eonaistently With the Bill's
Etllttlurjt' responsibility it} peoteet intelligence sunrises and methods From muthotized disclosure
and with similar responsibilities of the Alton-test Gﬂ'ltl'l'li and the Secretary to protect sensititre
taw enforcement sunsets and methods. with the HHS Legislation and other retevant lﬂmmﬂ"
nuthotitiee. Presidential Direetivee. the President‘s Innourteeti policies for ptoteeﬁng against
tie-rectal threats. tet- tlie homeland. antl with Section its}, and other relevant provisions ol'this
Agreement. Consistent with this lﬂl'ttdvupt'lﬂ interpretation:

{I} The DC! shall carry aul his respensibilitiﬂ fertile hoteetien Iii"
intelligence sucrose and methods. and the Seet'etEt].I and attorney Get'terttl shall carry out
analogous moonsihilities for smaitiee law entoi'eemenl sources and methods. in I
ll'l-iI-I‘lnﬂ. and thrnogh mechanisms. that ensure that all covered information is matte
avail-shale pmmptly Do the Deputment. not] to other ooseredl entities with a need-to-itrniw
end prop-er Eucut'ilf denounces anti handling ptoeeduree in place, subjete Dill)" te sueh
. handling and use restrictions as are strictly and unlvoi-tllhly oeoessanl to protest

 

