 

intalligmoa and transitive taut utiaroatsttsst sate-eta aarl melhotis ﬁ-attr tmautltttriaeri
diaeloa‘ttte.

it
E
”Di“

{it Theﬂﬂlahalletssteetltatﬂtesuhetaneeolalleovu-adioﬁamation
relevant to the memo: of all covered entities is provided to those entities
in a form suite-ti to theireﬁoﬁvenaeoflhatitafosmation, oottaistem Itithﬂte
DCI‘s obligation, to proteta intelligence m and methods from ttttauihotiaed
disclosure and Seetiett J-[a] of this m The See-satay and the Attorney
General shall similarly attawe that the substance ofootterad information is
provided in a suitable ﬁnntt.

{ii} 111.: DICI altali termite lltai diasuninlriota of classiﬁed “potting
based, wholtrer in put. on ottvetttd information. is aeoatnpanied lav dissemination
ol'as toot-h ofﬂut equating anti oovu'od ink-[nation as: is possible at an
melassiﬁatl {whielt may, what tie-teastat-y-T be outta-ti “Settsitive-hot-Uttdassiﬁed“
or "EBU'JI or reduced chasiﬂootiott let-rel, in order to ensure tho broadest possible
availability and use ol‘oovartal iuﬁormation hvthose with a [tandem-m that
infomatitttt {or ioﬁtt'tttation mining to that sohjatst matter]. law on a 'lwoad
intupretala'on ofthe mission oftlte othﬂoottetetl entity; The Secaetanrand the
.tﬂt.1tot't'te:.tr General shall aitttilalﬂyrt ettsut'e that dissemination is done in a names
that ettsta'aa the broadest pouilsle availability.

{hr} hﬁormﬂionmafheradlﬂedorputintoatailomdpmﬁuutntheutem -'
tonsil-tern 1tttith Election Hi] of thia Argentinean. .

{oi Homing in this seela'on reiievea any month: oftl'to [ntei‘ligenee
Ilil'tttt'ttr't'ttattiti.r thatotiginatae eaves-ad infotmalieo li'otrt ila obligation to provide that
infon't'tltt'ton lo DHS and otherttotteaoti elliti-es. It Witt. in I Form consistent with
this W the HHS legislation. and other relevant statutes and authorities
regarding lht: proteotiott ofaoua'otsa Ind methods-

I5.“

 

{a} Conaialmt with the President's motioned policies. our national prioriliesa
including this session. Section its], and other tttltttutt provisions: of this Agree-net“. the
DHS Legislation and other relevant statutes and Preaiden'lill Directives, ooatertstl entities
that originate severed information that is classiﬁed shall retain the Hillhﬁl'iljt' lo determine
whether that il-‘tﬁ'ln‘mtiott. or any portions thereof. tattssl mos-in classiﬁed in the interest of
national security.

{i} Covers-ti entities shall me that {ant-ﬂed information ﬂtat is
etassi iietl orotherwise subjed to minted dissemination. but whieh reasonably
appears likely to require onward passage to state, local. or private seat-m atﬁeials,
the public. ot other Itttltr ettfotettnattt ofﬁcials For use in a et'itttinal investigation.
roaches DHE ptomptlv vtitl-t mplﬂj'illﬂ high-content “hear tines“ suitable for
onward passage at an tatteisesiﬁed level. Until this earl he oohievetl .

I'I'

 

