 

Simultttnectusly re the transmit-earth uf' mattered inferrnettutt. the deuelnpti'nent cit"
sueh tearlinut shall not delay the pruristen ef entreted infenestiun-

s ttpuaddtr'

{till The parties shall ensure. re the peanut extent unsettle. that
entered entities utitiae agreed-need standardized fenrtatting tet- preparatlun ei
tearslinc material t'ur passage in state. laee‘tI ur pnuate secter efﬁcials. including
state and tees] tau.- earns-reused efﬁeials Fer use in a law undercut-tent
tnyestigatien, er re the rntblic. with the geal et‘pteyiding neeessary substantive
inl'urrnatian. but net enabling recipients te determine the enginatet. within the
Federal getterrustent. ef the intermatiutL

{h} DHS may, en its uurn initiative tar It the request tit'a hen‘tt'slaa'td security
eﬂ'teial te whet-n centered uttutrnattun is disseminated. net: that the uriginatieg agency
dcclassit‘y er tednee the ehssiﬁratien level attnehed te tl'tlt :‘rtt'emtatim in under tn penntt
dissetttittatiun te- udditttattal eIT-ieials tube have a needed-knew the inl'tarmet'i-nm te
pmmete ease uf handling by these authetiaed Iu review it. tu permit its inﬂurpm'ﬂtinn late
a dDCLﬂ'nenl that is unclassiﬁed es rJassiﬁed at a luurer Intel. nr Fer ether
eene'isrent with the heel! pmmptly tu putrid: hrtrt'telend Heurily taiﬁeiule with all reles'ant
neutered in furt'rtatiun that they have a needstn-Itndw in the cttrtduct er the-tr nﬁ'im'al duties.
Whenever tr reeewet mh a requeste the enginatittg agency shall rely-end re HHS. 1tttilhin
1-1 heats ier such lunger parted as is ugteed in by all panics}. unless cempelltng
eireusttatartees exist In require a ledger restlense time. Such respurtse will either —

til agree he declassit'y et reduce the classiﬁcatien ieyel til the eeyered
informant-n ll'l questtert as requested; er

{it} preside an altentttire t'ennulttien Iﬂ-Pﬂnﬂ't‘t: tn the requestea‘s
need :I'nr additional inferrnttlien sharing. but tuntithetut deelaeeifyeng ctr reducing the
elaeeiﬁr-tttiett til" the original deeItunettt er neutered ieFemtetiett where that name:
be time eunsisrent with assuring the nltieeai steetu'ity.

tc] Whit-re the need by [ll-t5 fer hmher dissemination efelessifted
intiat-tnatien reeeiyed fret-n ether eeyered entities.r including threugh deelassiﬁcatien er
the preparatiun el'uttelase'tﬁed tear-tines. is urgent because the int'uetnatiun centains er
they cenlain teeterist threat indiealiens m'tieal tu theahs'lity et'hemelartd seem-try
em-tials to prevent. preempt. es disrupt a pessilale ttnerist attest. that inferrnetjee may
he passed directly te the e-uityet ett‘tniel that her a need-te-‘Itne-t-tr that in l'unrtatiuni
peat-ruined that the centered entity passing the infermatiun ﬁrst nutities the eriginatittg
enemy and letter: steps tear-unable under the es igent eirnuttstarteue te pit-meet white-yer
ﬂlﬁiﬁﬂd inferntatiun ts net essential In mitt-ting the urgent hurnelurt-tl security assurance
measures that may he required-

id} The parties agree te- deselee tugeeher. as seen as practicable. mechanism
and precedurcs. including tluuugh the use et‘ detailues and assignees tn the 1Tlt'.’ and
”TH. as apprﬂpﬂallr. In early net the preﬁsietts nI'Se-etincn h. The parties. agree In Wt'lt'it'.

