tngether tn ensure that the ethninistt'ati‘ve. ﬁnancial. and persnreiel. burdens nftius sectinn
are shared tn the greatest extent pnssihle suiting severed entities.

T. W Tu facilitate the in fannattnn sharing.
cnerditiaticn. and deennflictian pnlieies revered in this Amman. entered entities shall detail.
andtnr assign. to the greatest extent pnssihlc. including in the 1TH: andt'nt .lT'TFs, pastime-1. whri
have the ath-critr either in maize etassifteatrnn review and meant-:11 deeisinns themselves. er,
netisistcnt With the time frames established its this Agreement. te refer thttse deeisinns tn the
apprnpriate ni'ﬁcials at the nriginating agency- I'nr prompt. actinn.

3- W A: save as practicable the parties
shall mcdiﬁ' ettistittg. mechmiatna and pmcctses fer primitiaatinn nf terrorism. WMD and nlhet'
relevant fetcign intelligence eclieetinn 1' including within the United States] and requirements
processes to ensure that DHE has meningful panieipatien at each stage and level nf each each
mechanism ctr prnc-css. including tlirnugh participatinn in the ITIC. The parties alscl shall! wntit
Ingcther tn previde reeernnienilatinre as in whether. and new. mac: ni- mechanisms fcr
purely “medic" tenants-n {c.g.. enneerning the capabilities. plans and intentinrts nf exclusively
dnrnesiie white supremacist nr militia peeps]. and other relevant intell ignite enilectittn shtiuld
be created an alternatively. tints tn ems-e rneaningtiil participatinn by DHS in the [nit-n tiaatian
fnr gathering such infutrtnatint'i. This sectinrs dnes nut refer tn npﬂalineial activities.

staunchly

'9'. Mg. The parties agree In establish precedta‘es and mechanisms tn previde
DHS. and. as appmpnate and peacritsihle. ether revered entities. with access tn databases
amtaitiittg severed inl'nmtalinn. Tn this end. the plastics shall establish a wnrlting gnup. 1within .
3-D davs cf the date nfthis Agreement. Developed nines-dines and mechanisms. including
threugh the use cf the Tl‘lt: andtnr JTTFs. shtiuld be consistent with the [it-[S Legislatinn and
other relevant statues? authnt'itiest. Presidential Directives. the President‘s annnuneed' pn1ieies
fer prnteeting againsl trs'tnrist threats in the hen-Leland. and the apprnpr‘iatc needs fnr access by
nit-t5 tn apprniiriatc databases. as wail as with the pretentinn nt' inrelligence as sensitive law
enfeiteemet'tl snut'ccs and methnds. and 1with Sectinri 341a} and ether pensrisinns n'fthis Agreement.
Such penceriurcs and mechanisms slusuld facilitate. In the greatest pncsihie esterit: ease and
EDEIHI nfinfnrrnalinn cachange’. differentiated access. tn ailnw individuals l.uith different laveis ctf
sect-trill:r clearance Ind need-tn-ltnciv tn have different levels nl'aeccss ln datahases; and
campatihility with ether databases nl' envered entities.

Itt. W- it it lbs intuit vi the

parties In build and rnc-derniae ail relevant databases and ether infnnnaticn technclng}! systems
in under tn tnttttirnlae enmpatibilits' widi ether systems with which Ilsa}- must interact. Such
prncetlur-es and mechanisms alsn I'ntast stimulant with existing. Statuary and Presidential
Directives. including with regard In the preteennn at" classiﬁed. inlhrmstinn and applieebte
privacy preteetlens.

I l- Handligg am ﬁlﬂgﬂ The parties shail ensure that envcrcd entities within their

jeﬁsdierinn n'lsserue the established handling and strange standards apptnnri are In the
classiﬁcatinn and access restritainns indicated an cnvered infnrmalinn divest receive. use. and .

Iq

 

