hi_l___-'_ L'Ll:l£5 ' lrll.._ 1*-

-—--_

l-Lrteeutit'c ﬂrder 13333 at” t'tctaber 25., lttrﬂﬁ

Fu rtlter Strengthening the Sharing eI'Terrarisnt lnt'nrmatlau tn Frateet Americans
lly the nutl‘mrity vested in me as President by tlte Cnnstittttiert and the laws nt‘the L'ttited Htates

trlir‘tttteriea. including ul‘ the Intelligettee Refer-m and Tcnﬁyiﬁnl Pun-min“ am it"

thti-l tl’uhiie Latt' ﬁlth-1515i}. and. iIt nrder tn further strengthen the effective eundttct nt'lfnited
Htatcs ettuntcrterret-ism actit'ities and preteet the territory. pecttle. and interests nl‘thc [Tailed
Htatcs at" :"tl'ltel'ltitL including against temtrist attacks. it is hereby nrdered as I'niitnt's:
Heett'nn i- Fnlicy. 'I'n the ransimum estent ennsistetu with applicable law. agencies shall. in the
desigtt and use c-I‘ inthnnatinn systems and in the disseminaticn nl'int'nnnntinn amnrtg agencies:
tat- gitre the highest pricrity In ti i the detecticm. pmttcntinn. disruption.
preemptina. and mitigntien cl‘tlte etTeets ul‘terrttrist activities against tlte
territory. maple. and interests urthe United States ars‘tmetica: tiil the
inter: hange nt‘ terrcrism inﬂtrt't‘talit'ttt antnng agencies: Hit} the interchange nt‘

tcrnerism infttmtatinn between agencies and apprentinte authttrities at State, Jtteal.

and tribal gm'crtttttents. and between agencies and apprnpriate private seeter
entities; and thin the gmteetinn nt'the altility nt‘ agencies In acquire additinnal
stitch in tttrrnalintt: and
il'll prtttt'tet the Premium. inl'ttrtt'tatirtn privacy. and either legal rights at r‘tttter'iettrts
in the ennduer hraetit'ities implementing subsectittn ittl.
lice. I. lluties eflieeds nt' .-"tgeneics I’trssessingnr Acquiring Terretisttt lathmtatien. 'i'n
implement the whey set Ibnh in seetiea I et'thisnrder. the head ttl'eaeh agency that passesscs
t‘rr acetates terrorism intitrtrtatinn:
tel 511:!" pea-malty git'e access In the terrerisrtt iltlbrtnatitrrt tn the head ﬁt each
ether agency that has ettunterterrurism I'unetittns. and preside the terrttrism
inl‘nnnatinn tn each such agene y. unless otherwise directed by the President. anti
consistent Iwith ti] the sttttutnry restatnsittilities nl‘tlte agencies pnn-iding and
receit ing the int'e nnatittn: [iii any guidance issued by the .-'tttnrney tieneral tn

limit: the pniiey set faith in subsectinn Ith at“ this nrder: and tiii] ttti'ter applicable

latt. including seelinrts lﬂl'lttg} and lit at'tbe ltatienai Security .-'tet ttt‘ NH.
seetien Ittiti at the lnte1ligenee l'teﬁtnn and Terrtttism Pretentien .-'tct ttl'ltltl-t
{inclsdiag any pelieies. prance-dares. guidelines. rules. and standards issued
pursuant thereth}. scetirrns Bill! and IN: til'the Htttttetemd .‘ieettrily alter uj' Emil.
Eseeutit'e {lrder [2953 at April I‘l. I'HS. as amended.qu liseeutit-c ltlrdcr
13:” I nl'July 2‘}. Iiliﬂ: antl

tbt sltall cceperate in and Facilitate pntdttctien nt'repnrts httscd nn terrnri snt
inlbn'l'lutit'ttt t-'t'itl1 cbnlems and I'ttrrttats that permit dissettt'tttatittrt that maximises

the utility at the ittlitrmatittrt in prtttectiag the territery. pebble. and interests at" the

United States.

line. 3. Preparing 'lien‘ttristn lettitrntatinn l'ur Maximum Illistributittrt. Tu assist in espetlitittth tint]

etlbctit-e intplementatiun by agencies ttl'the retIicy set limit in seetinn | ut'tliie tit-tier. the

Page ittl'i

s sinusitis

