common standards :or the shan'ng of terrorism inl'onnation established pursuam to section 3 ol‘
of August 2?. Illtt-i. shall he used. its nrnpropriate. in carrying out
ttl'tlte intelligence Relitntt ttttd 'I'cn'urisrn Prevention .t‘tct ol'ElliH.
lice- -l. Requirements for Collection elhl'errorisnt lniitrtttitlittn Inside the United t-itotett. 'I'o :tsstst
itt expeditious :tnd et'titetit'e implementation h;- ugeocies of tire polici- set Iitrth in seethttt I or
this order. the reconzrttcndutions regarding the ennthlishntcrrt ut'esecutit-e hranehatt'idc collection
and sharing requirements. pntccdutes. and guidelines litr terrorism inlennotion collected within
the Linited States made pursuant to section 4 oi'Esecnth'c tlrder l335ti shall he used. as
appropriate. in carrying out '- r- of the Intelligence lielitrm end 'l‘errorisrt't Prevention
.-"tet ol'Etlii-i.
rice. 5. Establishment end Functions of iniitmtation Sharing Council-
tat t'nnsistent with section ”"6th of the Intelligence nurses and Terrorism
Prevention .-tet ul'ZtlLI-i. there is herein established an Inlirn'nation Sharing
[‘euneil tt‘euneil t. chaired h}; the Program Manager to “11“”! section lﬂit’: el‘
stitch Act refers. and eotnrtttsetl exclusively olhjesignees ol': the Seeretnries of
State- the Treasury. Ilel'ense. Commerce. Energy. and Homeiand tieeurity: the
Attorney |tiertertti: the Director el‘t'u'tttionai Intelligence: the Director ot‘ the
iIfetttntl Intelligence r'tgenc 3c: the Director ul'the Ul'ﬁtte of Management and
Budget: the Director nl‘the E‘cdcrni littrentt t'tt'Int'er-tigelittn: the Director ut'lhe
Ettlienitl lIL'ountttrtt.rt'rt.‘tt'itittt lL'ettter: end such other heads el'tlepertrrtcnts or
agencies as the Director ol'hu'atienel Intelligence may designate.
thl 'I ite mission Ur Ilte {Toutteil is to til Ill'ﬂti'lttlt.‘ advice and inlitrrttelion concerning
the establishment ol'un interoperable terrorism information shoring environment
to Facilitate automated sharing ol‘tcrrerisrn in litrnttttiun renting eppntpriate
agencies to implement the policy set lit-nit in section 1 of this order: attd iii:
petition tlte duties set Forth in section lillEI-tg‘t of the intelligence Reform and
I'et'roristtt Prevention Act el'llltil-i-
iL‘t To assist in es peditiottt and ctTeetite implententntien in; agencies of the policy
set forth in section I of this order. the pltttt Fer establishment ut‘a proposed
interoperable terrorism inlhnnotion sharing ent'tretutteol reported under section
Etet ol' Executive tlrder Ill-5h site" he used. its appropriate. in carrying out
ttl'llte Intelligence Rehtt‘nt ttnti Terrorism Prevention chill ttl‘EﬂlH.
lice. it. Deﬁnitions. .‘it- used itt tltis order:
toll tlte tetrt't "agency" has the ttteottlt'tg set forth I'or the term "ermctﬂiee agency" itt
Heetlttl't mi of title 5. l. tilted f-imtes t."oile. together with the l'teparttncnt of
Httntelttnd Security. but includes the Postal Rate E‘tttnmissiutt :tttd the L'nitcd
States Postal t-iert'ice and cseludes the tiot'ernntent Accountability ttl'liee: and
tttt the term "tcmtrisnt inlitntnttion" has the meaning set forth for such term in
election liliﬁtaH-lt ol'ttte Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention net of
IUD-i.
lice. 7- General l’tutisions.
till 1 his order:
ill shall hr: 'itttttlctt'tented in at tttttnrter consistent 1tt'ith applicable Iot'r.
including Federal In“ protecting the ittthrtntttion prieuclr read other legul
rights ttl'.'ltltt-ttriC-'ttttt. tIntI tittllje'el lit the tl'k'ttiitll'tllil}' ttrul'tpml'trittl'lt'tmi:

o stem-dds

Page In”

