UHELAESIFIEDHFDR DFFICIAL USE DNIXISE HEITIVE SECURITY IHFﬂHMATIﬂH

i'tddendum B In the EEC MUD” requires that any reeipient ef in fertnatien frem the TSDB
seeking tn use tattaﬂttttw identity in fennatien in any legal er administrative preeess nr
preeeeding ebtain Hat-dammit appreyal befere deing an. t'tppresal f rem the entity whieh
presided the infennatiem il‘ether than the HeMthT-tztn. is atse required. Additiennlly,
infermatien frem Fnreign lntelligenee Surveillanee .het [FIE-it'll.) eelleetinns may nnly be used
in a preeeeding with the advanee autherisatien ef the .t'ttterney General. 'lherefnre, any
atrtttttttdntt seal-ting tn use TSDB infennatinn in any preeess er preeeeding must eentaet ‘TSC
se that TEE ean assist in ebtaining Eppm‘r'ﬂl frem the HDMINA'IUR. ewner ﬁfthtt infermﬂlien.
er .ﬂttterney General, as required-

LE] in additien tn the l'eregning resttietinns, there are restrietiens en sharing infnrmatinn with
tereign geyernrnents. Any 1'ssttests'r Internrtlstt [as described in Addendum B in the THC
Mﬂti‘} will be deemed LithtItlJt'} and shared with the watehlisting eemm unity and fereign
gesernments fer watehlisting numeses pursuant tn the teens ef the Tit-it: MUU. heenrdingly.
nesttnatuss sheutd inetude. as apprepriate. Tt-Lttttttatar tnnnt'tsttttts in deeuments that eentain
nettrreieasehle wamings (tag. a repert is net releasable tn ttttstyyyissst eeuntries}. unless the
Tlittttﬂltll-i'l' Inttwt'IFtetta are restrieted by seme ether autherity that limits disseminatien. 1t‘ LLS-
tttsttsuru inferrnatien is etherwise autheriaed fer release tn the fersign gnsernment, the neu-
releasable warning is disabled in allew disseminatinn ef the in fennatien.

it". WRTEHLIS'I'IHG STANDARD: IDENTIFYING AND SUBSTAHTIVE
DEEDGATUR‘I' CRITERIA

l .24 Befnre a tttttt‘twnt er SUSPﬁEl'l-Li} 't'Iittttﬂt-tttt't' is added tn the 'l‘errerist Watehlist. TEE reviews
the nnminatinn te determine whether it meets the fellnwing minimum identifying eriteria and
minimum substantive detegatery eriteria fer inelusien in the T5 DI].

LEILI Minimum Identifying Criteta'a. Ftaeh neminatinn masteentain minimum
identifying eriteria fer inelusien inte the TSDH. 1it'ithnut this minimum identifying data.
the nnminatien is net eligible fer inelusien intn the TSDB, er any ef the TSC‘s
seeperted systems. Chapter 2 sets ferth guidanee regarding bath the minimum
identifying binmetsie and biegraphie nriteria fer inelusien inte the 'I'SDB. Altheugh
TIDE aeee pts reeerds eentaining Eess than these minimum eriteria, sueh reeerds will net
be eaperted either tn the TSDH fer watehlisting er in the '«minus supperted sysmms used
by the SEﬂEi-Ihilitta absent an eseetttinn deseribed in the 1ll't'atehlisting tinidanee.

1.24.2 Minimum Sn hstantiye Deregatery Criteria. in additien tn the minimum
identifying eriteria, neminatiens tn the TSDB are assented based en a ttteteuwnlttt;
SUHI'IElﬂN that the individual is a HHt'ttli-‘bl er susseersn Ts itttﬂttlti'l' derived frnrn d1:

 

” .‘t'ee appendix 4. addendum a tn the tan Men.
IJHCLASSIFIE [HIT-ﬂit DFFICIAL USE DNLWSENSH'WE SECURITE' IHFDRMATIDH

Page I 12

