UNCLﬁSSIFlEDHFﬂR ﬂFFIC IAL USE ﬂl'll L'tt'fﬂENSlTl‘h'E SECURITY INFﬂHh-IATIDN

totality ofthc information reviewed for nomination. ”i To demonstrate that the
nomination has sufficient indicia of reliability to support tltis ttlinfsortnl'tlai sLJertJIt‘IN
determination. Hot-ttua'rtuc aonttetrs should implement processes designed to ensure
that nominations are free from errors, that recalled or revised information is reviewed
regularly. and that necessary corrections to nominations based on those
revisionst'retraetions are made. NHMJHA’I‘IHG AGENCIES should. to the extent possible
given the nature of the reporting, verify the accuracy and reliability of the information
included in nominations. in some cases. the Nﬂl'u'lll'to'l'llilfi some? may not be able to
evaluate the reliability of the information received; however. in such situations. the
nﬂMIHnTIHG AGENCY can ensure that the information provided is an accurate
representation of the information obtained. L‘itapterJ sets forth further guidance
regarding the application of the arasounotn suerCIoH standard to ﬁlm nominations.

‘o'l. WATCHLISTIHG PHﬂCESS ﬂ‘t’ER‘t’le

l .25

I .th-

l1?

lite authorities referenced in Section II of this lilhapter created the framework for the
watchlisting enterprise by combining various Functions of csistin g government entities and
joining them to new organizations with eounterterrorism responsibilities. The resulting
watchlisting enterprise consists of {it'll-ﬁlm Toss. NtJ-Mtrtatt‘ncse nﬂﬂalatta'l'ﬂns, scatalttdltlts
and encountering agencies that are supported by the communitvaide collection, nomination.
and consolidation peocesses.

tintetnnroas. nontlrtat‘oas. aeoaaesroas.and sensations. nll Esecutive Departments
and Agencies have responsibility for catztlInitiatingi collating, and sharing 1Eltltﬂit|iilvl
tusoaata'lton to support the watchlisting process. They are called oatntttn‘roas because they
initially collect and identify information supporting the conclusion that an individual is a
HNDWH or susrecTHn Tut-theater- .ttn tJFtlt'iiHh‘l‘ﬂR is the Department or Agency that has
appropriate subject matter interest and classification authority and oolleets Tllltltﬁttlsnt
INI—‘t‘tttMnTlctH (its, raw information] and disseminates it or'rltttltﬂttlsl‘ lIJEttTIFIEttt-i to other
L15. Government entities via an intelligence report the. ﬁnished intelligence} or other
mechanism. In general, when an oatonsaroa has identiﬁed international Tttaaoatstn
IHI-ﬂaMn’l‘tﬂt-t and determines that information should be an-vidod to HCTC. the ﬁttlttlnlnttt-R
takes on the NUMINATUR role. it .‘dt‘tntltta‘rﬂtt is a Federal Department or Agency that has
information to indicate that an individual meets the criteria for a HNﬂWH or sttsalttrtttts

THFt socialist and nominates that individual to 'l‘lDF. and the TSDB based on information that
originated with that t‘tgcney.

1|rltu'hile all Nttsttrsa'ttsas have the duty of upholding informational standards. the HCTE and
TEE are distinctiy responsible for ensuring data quality and the integrity of their respective
repositories- HC'I‘C and ‘l‘ftfj are themselves potential NtiMlMA‘I'ﬂRH. Analysts from the

 

" Please note that there are also certain esoeptions to the rninirnum biographie infonnltion and minimum substantive
derogatory criteria required for 'I'enorist Watch! isl nominations that support immigration and visa screening activities
condueled by Ell-lb and DDS- dice Chapter 2, Section Ill and Chapter 3. Section V.

UNCLnSSIFIEDfIFﬂR ﬂFFlCIAL USE ﬂHLYfSEHSITlVE SECURITT INFﬂEtil-IIATIHN

Page | [3

