1.. .Jtdi 'niatratw - "ale. liaeh Iaaniaatingmrieinatingageney will wnrl.
with 1'51“: and HE'l‘E'. an needed. In amiat them in I'lrlﬂllﬁﬁiilb an appeal at
a redress-t detenninatien uratlter detenninatina ia whielt the 'I'Fd'Jli war.
awed. The neminalittgfnrieittatin3 agenejr will he reapnnaihie I'm' admitting
the aereening agenegr an the relewaahilitzr al'aay materials reqaeated I13; an
appellant during an aprmtl. mt updated ill'tfl'lyaia- ul'all relevant
lnlhnnatina will he eiairdinated between NL'TL' and the
auraimitlngfnriginalinb apeney. and will he li1rnardeil ten 'lT'iL'. whiel: in
turn will prm‘itie it In the :iEIUI-E'llil‘lg ageney. 'I'healtelﬁ't-tiﬁ Will eenHitler
“n.1,,- |1q;1.lt.' inlhrmmipn deeelul'led since the initial determinatima as we'd ea-
any inl‘nnaatitai pnrt-idetl hzr the individual ea tit: nr her eat-t1 helltlll'
during the appeala pnteesﬁ ilaell'.

 

3 xtpuadd‘lp'

 

 

l-- liewpimaihilitieLnl'the l‘lerrartmenl u_l_',1twlie 1:
i. I‘tt‘u will emnliaate with the relevant I'aniea. during the del‘enae nl‘anjr

jtttiieial ehalienge In“ the I'L‘rr'llilllll'll'l ni‘a ennlalaim lll'lwett-‘ml under “in
MU Ll ar :1 delenniaatinn ii}: a sereenine egenegr that relied in whule er in
part nn reennla ur ittl'nnuatiun in the 'i'HlJli.

   

 

ii. DIM will enneall with the Fat'liea. aa nweaaargr. l-t1 prrwide euntinnine
legal adeiee and attppnrt en matters related In walehiialing redress and lltia
:‘elilll.
ii. iiieat' m li'nueeaa' l‘lt‘lf-i anti “5 Reamtup iltililien at the 'I'ime area-a
Rel'ttan :
l- [Jul-l and [ll [5: w ill enlttiatte It1- enntplgr with applieahle visa preeednrea.

wliieh may inelude an at-prwt internal review lw a attpeﬁiattry eensular
ulnwr ar auntlier apprapriate ellieial. 1While a ennaelar ellieefs denial nt‘
a visa amtlieatinn mag.- nnt he Iw'erraled. that detenttinalimt is ittlitrmed by
an internal management review and. in appmpriate etwea. by input liwn an
interattenege review.

ii. ll'a visa applieatiim ia relined. apnlieanw a ' ail riaed that they may re-
a pplgr liar a tiaa. It subsequent appliealina ia etnwitleted an a new ease.
I‘rttﬁ agreea lu unminue tn review the underlying data and l'aeta in atleh
aulwequenl applieatintw- Whenever appmpriate, ma enlwulta wilh 'l'F-li".
HE"I'I‘.‘. and ether ageneies regarding data that appears iiamatplete er
iaaeearale. nrntherwir-e enal'lieta with inlitnnatiua ninained in the t'iaa
applieatinn preteen-

5. Pil-I'l'l'i.lih-1l52*~i'l' i ll-' IJIEI‘U'l'i-ll-i
liaeept as. 5-1-1 lirnh in lutntgntpha -I.L'.'r itttd -'I.F..iii euneenting the deennllietinn nl'walehliat

mauinatimw. disagreements ltettteelt the Panieearisinp antler-er related tn this. hit ll? will he
result-ed iat'ly h}: eettatlilatie-n between the I’ttt‘liea.

