UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR ﬂFFICIt'tL USE ﬂHL'lt'fSEHSlTIVE SECURITY IHFGRMATIDH

1.23

LE9

Lilli

l.JI

NLTC may discover an individual who is eligible for watchlisting while reviewing all-source
information. in these cases. HC'I‘E analysts will request that the ﬂatetrtatt'itt submit a
nomination for inclusion into TIDE: or. on a limited basis or during exigent circumstances.
NCTC analysts may update TIDE directly with a disseminated report and notice to the
ontotnn'ronts}. In instances where disseminated reporting is used to enhance TIDE. NCTC
will provide notice back to the collecting agency via TIDE. TEE may alse nominate
'rtittttﬂttlstvt INFDEthe-t'rtttrl received pursuant to Tennﬂttlsivt screening conducted by foreign
governments.

HCTC and 'IEC are responsible for reviewing both newly nominated individuals. as well as
subsets of eaisting records. to determine if additional antllor enhancement (research) is
required to locate missing information critical to the watehlisting process. In some cases. this
will require research to locate additional tlHne-ttat'nttt' lHI-‘ﬂR matters to meet the minimum
substantive derogatory criteria for watchlisting. In ether cases. this will require research to
locate additional biographic or biometric identiﬁers. in order to provide a comprehensive
record maximising the probability of confirming a rttstttvt: MATCH to an identity contained in
the T‘SDH.

nttcsecsroas are those who receive and hold 'rattaotusst turoaasrtt'tos and certain other
non-tenaﬂntsm tttrt'tttntnTtuH they are authorised to receive and retain. For example. two of
HCTC’s main statutory missions are to serve as the {I} central and shared knowledge haul-t on
strewn er sesracraet'aanoatsrs and (2} primary organisation in the US. Government for
analysing and integmting all intelligence information possessed or acquired by the US.
Government pertaining to 'tEttlttllttsa-t and counterterrorism. 'q

TEL? takes on the role of an ntttttttaen'mtt when a arrows erHtJEiPEC‘I'liI} 'l'liltltﬂftlli’l' is
encountered and the individual's record is enhanced or updated with Inteotlh‘rtitt—related
information. As noted in Paragraphs Li and LT. the TEE manages the watchlisting process
and plays a ltcy role in helping Departments and Agencies determine whether an ttrnlntnmttt
with a member of the public is one with a EWWM or susreerno Tsaanats'r. Additional
‘rrntnrJtttsnt INI—‘ﬂlttvbt‘flﬂhl or TEttltentsr ttttel‘t‘tFttit-ts are generated during encourrrtztts and the
Encounter Management Application {EMMID uses that inlbm‘iation to update records of
renewal or SUEPECTEI) 't'tiattuats'rs.

scatititltzss vet against the 'I‘SDB to determine ifan individual is a possible match to a HHI‘JWE
or sesrncTen '11-Iltttﬂltlti‘f ie the TSDH. scstsnrrras can include federal. state, local, tribal,
territorial. or foreign governments and certain private entities. Semening officials include
homeland security officers. consular affairs officers. transportation safety personnel. and
officials of foreign govemmcnts with whom the United States has entered into a t'tjttttnatsat
searernno IHliﬂRM-ﬁtnﬂw sharing agreement pursuant to HSPD—Ii. Certain Departments and
Agencies have components which perform both screening and law enforcement duties. If a

 

”see so use. stare.
2" Ida-ta is an application used by the Tfif: to administer Ettt‘tJlJt-ltlitt infonnslion.

UHCLASSIFIE DHFﬂE ﬂFFICIhL USE UNLYISENSITIVE Ei-Ellllillﬂ'l‘hIr li'l FDRMATI’UH

Page | id»

