rights and eieil liberties; Slrengthcn intert‘tnlidnal partnerships and etmrdinetien en
:tt'ialitltt security issues.

6 stpuadde

Ir Det‘elup remmntendatiuns en lime-teen Jew enlitreemettt requirements I111- neitttinn
security in ceerdinatien with the ”eminent el'Justiee-

Directer at National Intelligence
l Immediatel} reullimt :utd elaril'y titles :tnd resssinsihilities t'Ifll'IE ettuntertennrism
analytic eernpnnents ef the Intelligence [‘ttrnrnunil y in syncltmnizing. eerrelatittg, and
analytd rte. all schemes ei' intelligence related In Ierrelristtt.
I Accelerate inthnnst'ten lechttelugy enhancemcnts, te include hnetytedge disceeery-
dactl'ese inteemtien. emssdetahese searches. and the ahility te eerretate hiegmphit:

int'drrttnlien 1en'ilh terrttrisnt-rcinted intelligence.

I I'ette I'urtltet steps in cnlttmcc the rieer and raise the standard el‘tntdeet'eﬂ ef intelligence
analysts. especially analysis designed tn uncover and prey-em Iermrist ﬁels.

I Ensure reseurces are prnperly aligned with issues highlighted in strategic “en-ting
analysis.

The l|.'.'entrll Intelligence Agency
- Issue ettidanee aimed at ensuring the timely distnhutien nl‘irttelligenee rep-nits.

- Strengthen pneedutes related tt- httwe'alehiistine information is entered. reviewed.
searched- anal} zed, and acted upnn.

Federal Bu rent: of Investigatinnr‘Terrt-rist Screening Center

- lli,‘t;|n|:|dt.tt.:t a the-mugh review el'Termrist Screening ﬂatalstse heldings and ascertain
current visa status tit” all "knee-n and suspected termrists“ beginning with the ﬁn Fly list.

I- Det‘cltt-p recentmendalittns en ti. hether adjustments are needed tn the tt'ateltlisting.
Hentinatiens {ieidanee ineluding hingmphie and deregetery criteria t'tt-r ineiiL-tien in the
'l'ermrisl identities Dﬂltltl'litl't Eneimmttenl and 't‘ertetisl Screening Database. as well! as
the subset ﬁeleetee and hit} Fly lists-

Halienal ('etm terterrerisln lCenter

- Establish and rc‘t-itt-Ltrct! apprepnelety a entreess Ie pt'ittritize and to pursue thereuehiy end
esheeslit'ely tenet-ism threat threads. te include tlte idcnliticatien ell appeepriate I'eilttw-
un actien lay the intelligence. law enfercentent. and hemeland security cemmunities.

‘l-.|

