UNCLASSIFIEDHFGR G'FFICIAL USE DNLW SENSITIVE SECURIT‘I’ INFCIRMATICIH

Summary of Changes and Updates from the
Still] Watcblisting Guidance

a stint .,...

59 5C3 ,.,=
yeti-1R1”

eEJEFKDUD} The Watchlisting Guidance is a comprehensive document detailing the U..S
Government 5 terrorist. watchlisting policies and procedures. It was originaily developed to help
standardize the watchlisting community‘s nomination and screening processes. Since approval of
the 1Ii'liitttehlisting Guidance in July of Elilﬂ, the guidance and its related appendices have
undergone a thorough interagency review as a result of a May 20“] Dcputy’s Committee tasking
to the White House National Security Staff Information Sharing and Access Interagency Policy
Committee {IPCI that any signiﬁcant issues or required changes be brought back to the Deputies
for discussion. The Information Sharing and Access [PC identiﬁed a number of changes in
Department and Agency watehlistiug practices that had evolved since dissemination of the
guidance in Still}. In order to reflect these changes, the EDIE Watchlisting Guidance was
developed over a period of several months by an IPC under the auspices of the Presidential Policy
Directive —Cme [PPD I} process with representatives item the Departments of State, 'l‘reasury,
Defense, .iustice and Homeland Security, the [1ch of the Director of National Intelligence, the
Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency. the
National Counterterrorism Center, the Fedch Bureau of Investigation. and the Terrorist
Screening Center. The D'cp-tJli-ES Committee adopted the recommendation of the IPC to approve
the IBIS 1Initiatchlisting Guidance on March IE. EDIE.

[UHI-‘DUDJI The EDIE Watchlisting Guidance has a new structure and is organized in a way that
mirrors the watchlisting eyclc. It is now a single document divided as follows into ﬁves cltaptcrs,
with signiﬁcant watchlisting foundational documents for reference, and a list of deﬁnitions.
acronyms, and abbreviations:

Chapter I: Wutchlisting Process and Procedures:

Chapter 1: Minimum Identifying Criteria;

Chapter 3: Minimum Substantive Derogatory Criteria;

Chapter 4: No Fly, Scicctcc and Expanded Selectee Lists Implementation Guidance;
Chaer 5: Encounter Management and Analysis:

Appendix I: Deﬁnitions;

Apmndix 1: Homeland Security Presidential Directive 15:

Appendix 3: Memorandum of Understanding on the Integration and Use of Screening
Information to Protect Against Terrorism {FEE MGU};

I Appendix 4: Addendum 3 to tire 73C MGU.‘

UNI: LASSIFIEDII'FG'R CIFFiCIAL USE GHL‘t'f SEHSl'l‘l‘v’li SliCURIT‘t" INFURHATIDN

iHlRNf-"r'ﬁ: This record contains Sensitive Security Infarmation that is controlled under 49 CFI-‘i parts I5 and lilﬂ.
Ho partofthis record may bcdiscloscd to persons without a "need to know". as deﬁned in #9 CFR parts is and Iﬂﬂ,
except with the written permissintt of the Administrator ofllte Transpix'tation Security Administration or the
Secretary of Transportation. Unauthorized relme may result in civil penalty or other action. For LLS. Government
Agencies, public disciosure is governed by 5 USE 551 and tiii CFFI. parts l5 and Hill].

It traumﬂv

