UNCLASSIFIED-“NUS. EFF ICIAL USE. UNL ‘t'r’ SENSITI't-I'E SECiJl-ti'l'h" INFURM ATIUH

Appendix 5: Memorandum of Understanding between the Intelligence Community,
Fedcml Law Enforcement Agencies+ and the Department of Homeland Security
Concerning Information Sharing [inﬁrm-ration Sharing MUD“):

Appendix t5: Executive lli'llrdcr ISESS. Further Strengthening the Sharing of Terrorism
Infon'rration to Protect Americans;

Appendix in": Department oflustice Protoeol on 'I'errorist Nominations;

Appendix E: Memorandum of Understanding on Terrorist Redrcss Procedures {FEE
Rodi-ass MUTE}:

Appendix ‘J: Presidential Memorandum Regarding lﬂﬁﬂﬂﬂﬂ Terrorist Attach;
Appendix lEI: Acronyms and Abbreviations;

Appendix I I: Summary of Changes and Updates from the Bill: Watchlisting Guidance.

[Uh‘l-‘ﬂllilt— The Still} Watchlisting Guidance includes the following substantive policy changes
and updates:

New, amended, or clariﬁed deﬁnitions are included for the terms “aggregator,”
“demgatory informmion," “encounter,“ “enhancement,“ “foreign lighters." Hfrargr‘r'rentary
infnnnation.“ “known terrorist,“ “lone wolf.” “operationally capable," “particuiarixed
derogatory information," “reasonable suspicion," "terrorism screening information,“
“terrorism andr’or terrorist activities,“ and “US. Person" (Appendix 1];

Nominators are instructed to send available information to the National Countcrtcn-nrism
Center for consideration and additional review wttere masonable minds could disagree on
a record [Chapter t};

Nominating Departments and Agencies are instructed to prioritise the identiﬁcation of
new Known or Suspected Terrorists who meet the reasonable suspicion standard. along
with the identifying and derogatory information most useful to the watchlisting and
screening effort {Chapter I];

Nominating Agencies are to eondaet periodic reviews of their nominations of U.S.
Persons. at minimum on an annual basis {Chapter I];

Detailed instructions are described for handling US. Person information and ensuring that
proper coordination processes are implemented [Chapters l and 3};

The guidance regarding minimum identifying criteria has been revamped and exceptions
clarified [Chapter 2]:

The guidance has been revised to provide Nominators with more flexibility regarding
nominations of individuals based on fragmentary information (Chapter 2);

The minimum substantive derogatory criteria guidance has been restructured tr:- elaborate
on instances of where partiealarixed derogatory inforrnatiou is required to meet the
reasonable suspicion standard, and when reasonable suspicion is established by other
authority {Chapter 3};

UHCLASSIFIEDHFDR I[l'FFllIIIAL USE ﬂNL‘fr" SENSITIVE SEEUlilT‘t'r INFDRMATJDH

i i Klpuadd'tp'

