UNCLA SSTFIEDHFUR DFFICIAL USE CFNLW SENSITIVE itiEtIL'iiJliIT"I'r IH FCIRMATIDH

a The minimum substantive detegatery criteria has been restnrctured te enable the
watchlisting cemmunity te mere clearly distinguish between watchiisting based en
substantive dercgatery criteria that meets the reasenable suspieien standard ﬁem
watehlisting fer purpescs that suppert immigratien and visa screening activities cf the
Department et‘~ I lemeland Security and the Department ei" State {Chapter 3):

t- Revised guidance is previded regarding the watchtisting et‘ individuals based en
infermatien prevideti by a fereign gevern mcnt {Chapter 3};

I The guidance centains twe additienal categeries ef alien rttitt'tntcrrerisls in the databases
maintained by the Hatienal Ceunterterrerism Center and the 'l'errerist Screening Center te
suppert immigratien and visa screening activities ei‘.~ the Department at“ l lemeland Security
and the Department cf State {e.g.. individuals whe have a deﬁned relatienship with the
Knewn er Suspected Terrerist, hut whese inveivement with the Knewn er Suspected
Tcrrerist‘s activities is unltnewn {TIDE Categnry Cede 5b] and aliens t'er whem
additienal intelligence is required {TIDE Categery Cede 99)} {Chapter 3]:

I- The Implementing Guidelines regarding the He Fly and Selectec List criteria have been
updated and clariﬁed {e.g.. llSuantaname Bay detainees are new included en the Ne Iiiy
List. as required by #9 U.S.C. Sectien MWEﬁﬂEJICKt-Ij} [Chapter It}:

I Use at the ﬁne The Waiver Pelicy is addressed te facilitate travel under centrelled
cenditieas cf certain LLS. lCitieen lines-m er Suspected Terrerists {Chapter 4};

I The guidance reﬂects the creatien ef the Expanded Selectec List. an expert Ie the
Transpertatinn Security Administratien cf hinewn anti Suspected Tcrrerist recerds within
the Terrerist Screening Database that centain a fuil name and cemplele date eI" birth te
suppert airline passenger screening {Chapter 4}: and

a The guidance reﬂects the autherity ef the Tcrrerist Screening Center Directer te malte
individual wutehlist dctenuinatiens {t'.e.. placement en the He Fly, Selectec and Expanded
Selectec Lists} during exigent circumstances {Chapter 4}.

{UHFCtUD} These changes te the 1tittatchlisting Guidance are intended te make the watcltiisting
preeess mere ﬂexible, agile. and inclusive in erdcrtc respend re additienal tcrrerism threats while
previding the watchlisting cemmunity detailed guidance eenceming the watchlisting pelicy cf the
US. Cevcmmenl.

{UHFDUD} The EDIE- Watchlisting Guidance describes the US. Devcntment's cemprehensive
watehiisting pelicies and preccss and includes Sensitive Security lnfermatien. Accerdingly,
Departments and Agencies whe received eepies eithc EDIE Watchlisting Guidance are instructed
te carefuily eentrel and share the guidance with enIy these individuals whe are directly inveivcd
in the terrerist watchlisting and screening precess.

UHCLA. SSIFIEDHFDR CIFFICIAL USE CINLW SENSITIVE SECUF. i‘l“'t'r INFICIRM ATIUH

t I Ktuvaddv

