UHCIASSIFTIEBHFUR ﬂFFICIAL USE DHL‘WSEHEITIVE SECURITY IHF’DRMATIDN

LJJ The arrews fade inside the 'iEDH cylinder because net. every neminatien frem HCTC {fer

international ’I‘tittttﬂttlxht] er the FE! [fer demestic TFJt xﬂxttist} is experted frem the TSlJl-i- te
settttsttstts {represented by the multi-eeltx'e-d hteette at the far right efthe ehertt.“ Fer
example, eertain eategeries ef individuals: that de net meet the minimum identifying criteria
[see Chapter 2. Seetien it} er the attaseuaate susrtetea standard (see Chapter 3. Sectien II}
ean be watehlisted te suppert immigratien and visa screening activities by Dl-iS and DOS {see
Chapter 3, Sectiert ‘v'] but are net expected te statei'lecait'tribal SCREEHt-Lttx ctr fereign partners.
Similarly. when ﬂattjlhlnTﬂxs previde Fastehttitv‘t‘nxv' IHFext-aanttx te HCTC fer inclusien in
TIDE, such infennatien will net he expel-ted l'rem TIDE te the TSIJEt. unless the Hehttxn'rltvtt
attsuev believes there is sensexaata SUSPlL‘iﬂhI te believe that the individuai is a xttevttt er
susrttettte Teaeealsr. hearth-tame av IHFt'tlth'h't‘l'lﬂt-tl is previtieti te MC’t‘t: where it eatt be
further analyzed. cenneeted te existing in fem‘tatien. and added te TIDE fer expert te 'J‘SDH
because NCTC, and net individual ﬂxldtxaTttax. has access te ali the infenttatien available la
the U.S.{ieven1ntenten a xtvearht er sparse-tee tuttaests'r.

V] I. RULES AND RFﬁPﬂNSIIIILITES FDR THE WATCHLISTING AND SCREENING
CUMM lﬂ"tlIT'!t'r

I .34 Delineatien el" reles and respeesibilities et‘ Hehtttsa'rtnn AtiiEhtEII'iS, seasextttts. “tit, and

1.35

the TED is critical te previde fer an effective and efﬁcient integrated Terrerist 1tit-“atehlist
enterprise. While liSPDhb describes the bread mandate efdeveluping an integrated watehlist
system. and the EEC Mill!!! prevides a levet ef detail needed ta fulﬁll that mandate. further
clariﬁcatien is required te ensure there are neither gaps in the neminatien preeess, ner
wasteful redundancies.

Pursuant te HSPD-«ti. Departments and Agencies in the Executive Ht-aneh are required. te the
extent permitted by law. te previtie Titsaeatsr tttt'FﬂFth'lrtTtt'ti't te HCTC. This preeess will be
aecernplished either threugh direct neminatien te NCTC. er threugh a specific cempenent
designated by a Federal Department er Agency head fer deing se {e._g.. ail Dill cempenents
are directed te neminate threugh the FBI; DHS Intelligenee and Analysis (Ida's) has eversight
respensibility fer all DHS neminatien s}. Except as detailed in the sectiens applicable te
expedited neminatiens [see Paragraphs I .55 and 1.59}. Ht‘thtlttthtttiﬁ attEHtthS will endeaver
te previde eemprehensive neminatiens and include the maximum ameunt ef identifying and
neaeex'reav IN reexamine-” utthttuatrtee rial-hatetttu'ts ante AGENCIES. sheuld prien'tbte

 

1' The Ten-uriat seteettihs Database Annex D te the Fat Memeret-ttittm er Understanding with eepttnment er nerehee

{Den}. siyted February 21, 1t] l2, established DeD as a screening ageney euslemer ef the TEE. The dashed line in the

latter chart represents that [bet] is ﬁnalizing pmeedures te receive and use infanttatien frem the TSIZIH fer it: sea-setting
meesses.

In May Itltﬂ. the Deputies asked that txxttlxttt‘ltx] .HtGEHtl‘It-LS “ensure that neminatiens are eemprehensive and
include the maximum arneunt ef identifying and DEED-[tamer Ix Fetish-tantra.“ In EEIIII. the lntcragettey Peliey
Cemmittee tIFE}, in eeerttinatien with mutter-tress. sentiments. NET-t? and ﬁC,dE1i'EitJ-pcd a prieritireti ttst efdata
identiﬁers that are critical te sereening and identity reselutien activities- This karmic.- Reaeiutien and Enhancement
Tiers deeument is available en HC‘I‘C‘s Ilt'ltt'alehlisting Cemmunity ef interest penal en the .leint 1tilt-terlrlhvide lntelligenee
L'emlnun icatiens System {JW {[25}-

UHELASSIFIEDHF‘DIH ﬂFFlCth USE DNLTIEENSITIVE SECURITV INFDRMATHJN

Pagel i6

