UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR ﬂFFIC'IAL USE ﬂNLWSENSITI‘i-I’E SECURITY IHFDRMATIDN

lib

1.3?

the identiﬁcatien cf‘ncw KNOWN er sthPEC‘rtzt‘t TERlitﬂ'Ftlsl'S whc meet the REASGNnEtLE
susetclcn standard. alcng with the identifying and usacentcttv lt-il-‘tZttti'stn'l'tﬂH mnst useful in
watehlisting, and screening cited. as well as assisting in idetttity reecltnicn.

Each Department cr Agency that ncminates a tthttJWH er SUSFELTFD TEttttﬂals't' tn HC't'C I'cr
watcbtisting is under a centinuin g cbligaticn tc previde NCI‘C with newly identiﬁed
Itseccnrcav tut-estimates nr nseulpatnry int‘nrrnatinn cbtained by that Department cr
Agency. Each Department er Agency else has the rest‘ssnsibility tn previdt'. NUT-13 with newly
identiﬁed identifying and DttsﬂttnTEIRt' INFﬂEtt-tnTlﬂN cbtained t'rem their Department er
Agency, regardless iFthey were the ttriginal NUMIHM'IHH ntJEl-ttf'r.

1|ill'ith the nnted eaeeptien ef' the Visa 1|i-I'iper Prngrarn, Dcpartntents and Age ncies sltculd net
ncrninate ttbtﬂws cr susttnc't'cn TEttnttttlst‘s tc HC'I‘E based cn inf‘cmtatien that they dn nnt
nriginate withcut ﬁrst ccerdinating with the Ustﬁmn'l't‘m.

'ir'lll. QUALIT'I" {JUHTHﬂL MEASURES

LEE

L39

l Ail

In crdcr tn preducc and maintain the meet reliable and accurate int'cnnaticn in TIDE, TEDB,
and screening databases. quality ccntrcl is ccnsidered a respcnsibility cfall entities.
HthMnTrne DEPARTMENTS-i nND ntit-Ltttntts must establish and maintain precesscs. including
apprcpriatc training and guidance. te ensure infnnnaticn transmitted tn HCI'C is censistent
with the scarce ct'the int'crmaticn.

HEI’IHE Requirements. l-tSFD-d requires the TEE tn maintain thcrcugh, accurate, and
current infcrmatien cenccming ttttﬂwtt er attsrltCFtED TERRﬂRIﬁTs. Fer watchlisting purncses,
“current" means inferrnalicn that the HUMINn'l-‘Istj ncsncv reascnably believes is valid and
accurate. The requirement that infermatien be eurrcnt dues ant. necet-tsarilyr preclude
int'crmaliun that is several years cld t'rcrn being included in the TSDH it" there is nc reascn te
believe the infcrmaticn may have changed [e.g.. infermaticn regarding an individual‘s date cl"
birth err 'l'tttttttlttlsl' Ali'I'lvl'r‘r was eulleeltal El] years age but has nut beert superseded by
additiﬂnal infen'natimt is still relevant}. NﬂMIHaTﬂRs sheuld eensid-er the date erﬂie
[Janet‘s-times tHFﬁttntnTtDH in the ccntest ct" anal yaing the evetall quality ct" the data, as well
as the severity nf'the threat, tn- deten‘nine whether the individual warrants watehlisling. The
date at the used-Garnet“ tha‘th-thtn't'tnm may refer tc bcth the date the infurmaticn is ccltectcd
{such as a repert that was collected 51} years age) as well as the date at the infcrmaticn that is
referenced in the retraining [such as a recent rethrt that references an event that uceurred 5!}
years age}.

TEE” MOI! Dbligaticns. Paragraph I5 c-t'the ll'i'C‘ MUU previdcs that the 'I'SC “will
determine, scccrding tn criteria established jnintly with the entity respcrssiblc t‘nr each
suppcrtcd system, which suppcrted screening pnecesscs witi queryr that entry in the
ccnsclidatcd TERRt‘JRtST screening database.” Pursuant be that paragraph. the 'l'ﬁt‘.‘ is required
te “make these determinaticns based en criteria and prnccdures develcped in cccrclinaticn
with the Parties be this Mcmnrartdum and in ennsullatinn with the heads nf apprepriate Federal

UNCLASSIFIEDHFUR ﬂFFICIAL USE ﬂNLTt’SENSI’I‘IVE SEt‘L'llllillT't'r IHFDRMATIDN

Pagel I?

