UNCLASSIFI EDHFDR {JFFICIAL USE DNLE’HEHSITI't-FE SECURITY [NFIDR MATIﬂl'i

Departments and Agencies based cn factcra. including but nct lirnited tn, the fcllcwing:
l.4i].] the nature nl‘ the peracn‘s assccialicn with tEttac-tttftnt:

1.40.2 the quality at" the data, including credibility, retichility, and extent cl“
ccrrchcraticn; and.

|.4i}.3 the extent cf uniquely identifying data. . . :43

I .4 I Prnyide Guidance and Training. Each Agency will prcyidc guidance en the watchlistin g
business pmccaa. hnaiysts will receive pcricdic refresher training. as needed.

L42 NﬂH-IINATJHG Mil-int!“ Procedures. Each HDMIHn‘t‘tttt Fiﬁ-Hiding. internaticnal Tttttnttatst'
watchlistin g ncminaticns tc HCTC it: rcspcnsihlc fcr the accuracy cf its infcrmaticn and has a
cctttinuing respcnaihility tn nctil'y NC’l'C cl'any changes that affect the validity as reliability
Bf SUﬂl'I in runnnticnf‘l NC'I'C analysts: will rGVi-cw each numinntinn liar TERHﬂT-HST
watchlisting pricr tc its irthusicn intc 'l'iDle'. and its expert tn the TSDIJ.

L43 Each HDMINATIME: nC-EMC'.’ shculd implement prccesscs designed tn ensure that ncntinaticns
are free i'rcnt tl'l'ﬂﬂi. that recalled nr revised infnrmaticn is reviewed regularly. and that
nccecaan' ccrrccticns tn ncminaticns based cn these rcyisicnsi'retracticns are made.
ncumn'nnu neancnss shauld, tn the cttlcttl pcssible giycn the nature at the repertlng, ycrify
the accuracy and reliability cf the infcrntaticn included in ncminaticns. The fcllnwing
represents the type cl preeesses that eaeh ncsttnnttnc acttncy shall dcyclcp that are tailnred
In each Agency‘s particular missicn and cpetaticnai enyircnntcnt:

L41] neyetep Adequate Faernal Predicate. Eaeh unattnarlntt acttncy will seek te
chtain as much ttEttttﬁn'rttay IHFnttMA'rtcat and identifying infcmtatic-n as practicable
cenecming the HHIIIWH er atJaPItCTttIJ Tttt'ttttttttar whn is being ncrninalcd.

l.4].2 Prnyide Guidance and Training. Each Httatlnnttttt} attﬁtttjy will pmyidc guidance
an the Tatttttjttttt‘t‘ watchiistin g ncrninatinn prnccss and ensure that analysts inyclycd in
the ratrninaticrt prcccss are trained en a pcricdic basis.

1.43.3 Require Quality Assuranee Review. Each HUMINM'ING ncnncy will use a quality
assurance precast: tc rcy icw nnminaticns fer accuracy print- tc Fcrwnrding the
ini'nrrnaticn tc NETC-

L414 Heightcned Review l'nr [1.5+ FEHSﬂtﬂ-t. The ncminaticns ct" LLB. I'ttttstthtts require

 

:1 see app-mats :t. Tarmac.
3* I'lii-tﬁl.‘f ucsttas'l'tt‘ Tlsattcatast tHFtJ-RMATIUH is preyided directly Ic TEE by the FBI and is subject In the same
mad itittns applicable ttt the naminaticn prccctiurca far these aaacciatcd. with intcmatinnal Ttsttttﬂtuttnt.

UHCLASSIFIEDHF‘JR DFFICIAL USE DH LWSEHSITIVE SECURITY IHFDRMATIDH

Pagcl IE

