UNCLAEEIFIEDHFDR GFFICI AL USE {IN Li’tSE-NSITIVE SIE'JHJH‘JT'ltr IHFﬂRMhTEﬂN

speeial eunsideratiens and preeeduresf'S See Paragraph 3-15.

Hi5 u.s. resents Determinatieus. HDh-ltt-M‘I‘ﬂati t'ttust lalte reeeeeahie steps te determine
whether an individual is a Lts. I'Itttst‘tnt-

L416 u.s. rattan" Review and Cﬂnﬁrmtlllﬂl'l. Neminatiens el' this. Planter-is tn the
Terrerist Watehlist shall be reviewed by the Huntlh'a'l'lalti aesuefs legal enunsel er a
designated reviewer tn enniirrn that the anaemia tut; susettrten standard has been met
er that the neminatinn meets an exeeptinn tn the Ransnttalttﬁ stJaPICItt-H standard. and
In ensure that the nnminatien eenfnnns tn t‘tgeney speeifie its. Peasants authnrities and
guidelines.

1.43.? Reliability and Accuracy Limitations. Neminutinns will inelude any Iimitatinns en
the reliability er aeeuraey nf the infem‘tetien.

L413 Perindie Reviews- The HUMINa'I'IHtj aﬁEHCv will eenduet periedie reviews el'their
neminatinns at” us. Hilts-tins te the 'I‘errarist 1|illiatehlist. at minimum en an annual basis.
when there is nn eerrespnrtding FBI investigatinn tn ensure that the [1.5. Pettaﬂhl
enntinues tn meet watehlisling criteria.

L419 Retire-as Prneedures. As per the establishment efa Fermal watehlist redress prneess
{see Chapter |. Seetinn El}. entitles invnlved in the watehlisting preeess shall establish
intental reviews and redress preeedures.

L44 Eaeh neutwa'rtue aeesev will have preeedures that faeilitate the preventien. identificatinn.
and eeneetinn ef any errnrs in infennatien that is shared as part at" the watehliating prneess.
Preeedures will inelude the review el‘ retraetiens andt'nr eerreetiens el' infermatinn that may
have been used in suppnrt a naminatinn. In eases where a retraetien er ether infnrmatien has
beeerne available. the NUMIMAHNU aeenev will prnmptly send a watehlist remnvai request er
medifieatien. as apprepri ate. tn MUTE. Eaeh HeMIHa‘rtne auErtev must previde nutiee ef
any errnrs er autdated inferrnatien tn NCTC immediately unless there is an artieuinted teaser]
why such nntiﬁeatien eenld nut be made immediately. HCI'C will preeess and transmit tn
"Fl-it; sueh eeweetinns npett reeeipt.

L45 NCTC Review. in additinn in review by HCTC analysts, HCTC will emplny a quality
enntrel preeess te ensure that all standards and apprepriate preeednres have been empleyad.
the data is aeeurate. and the presentatiurt [if the material is elear, enneise, and eernpiies with
established deﬁnitinns and ennvenliens. HCTC must else have prneesses and prneedures in
plaee to ensure the infermatinn deeumented in TIDE and previded tn the TEE is aeettrately
transcribed. HCTC shall ensure there is a prneess in plane l'nr review andler auditing efTiDE
reenrds.

 

-" see Eseeutive Order ”333.115 amended. me 5 use. sseuees}.
UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR {JFFICIAL USE {IN LvtaltﬁalTIv'E SECURITY INFDRhta‘t‘IﬂN

Page] I?

