UNCLASSI FIEIJHFDR ﬂFFICIAL USE ﬂHLYi'SENSITI FE Ei-EIIIZURIT‘Wr [NFDHMATI’DH

I .45

TSC Review. 'I'SC personnel will review the nominations received as described in Paragraph
LSd. TSC personnel evaluate whether nominations meet watchlisting standards and weigh, as
appropriate. all-source analysis before accepting or rejecting a nomination. The THC has a
critical role to playr in quality control, as the 'I'SC review is the last step before any record
[including a biometric nomination where no name is available} is sent to various screening
systems. this with "MUTE, the THC should ensure there is a process in place for review arsir'or
auditing oi" Ttit: nominations and Ttit‘.‘ records.

II. NDMIHETIUH PRﬂEEDURES

L4?

L43

Distinctions between LLS. transects under Executive tlrder H.333 and Aliens under the
Immigration and Nationality Act. This 1vit'atclilisting Guidance generally adopts the
deﬁnition of its. PERSUN I'rom Ettecutivc ﬂt‘dcr |2333 {as amended} for nomination
procedures. l-Lsccutive ﬂrder 1233-] defines a “.5. Fenian-t as “a United States citiiten. an alien
known by the intelligenee element concerned to be a pennanent resident, alien. an;
unincorporated association substantially composed of United States citizens or permanent
resident aliens. or a corporation incorporated in the United States. except for a corporation
directed or controlled by a foreign govcmntent or governments." The l|tit-"ateltlisting Guidance
also contains certain exceptions to the minimum substantive derogatory standards for
Triattoitls'l' watchiisting that support immigration and visa screening activities by the DI [ti and
DDS to determine whether incligihilities esist for admission to the United States or visa
adjudicatien purauartlte the Immigration and Nationality Act [ma]. Because the ma.
deﬁnes “aliens" as any person not a citizen or national of the United States. the [HA
admissibility provisions also apply to Law Fol Permanent Residents [LPRs], in certain
circumstances. who are considered LII.s. reasons under Executive tinder 12333.

Consequently, HC'I‘C developed a mechanism in TIME to identify and distinguish U.E.
citizens from non-US. citieens in order to further distinguish belaecn “aliens“ under the thin.
and 1J.H- I'lilttiDi-JE under Executive ﬂrder [2333.16

ﬂltltimarrﬂtt‘s Nominations Procedures. As mentioned in Paragraph Lid. when an
oatolsn'tos twenties a unset-dates. it prepares a nomination document and roncartls it to
NET: through the noattnsroe tool.

|.4ti.l Asa general rule+ HCTC will attach all disseminated communications [cables or
forms} to the iEattﬂtttsl‘ identities record as a “source“ document, which 1arill be
available on HCTC |Current or the Joint Worldwide intelligence Communications
System [JWICS) to individuals who have licen granted access to 'l'IDE.

Ltd: Because HCI‘C is the conduit for passing international 'rsa aoatste mt-‘oasta't'ton to
TEE for Titan-{imam screening purposes. there is no longer a need to send watchlist
requests ti: multiple Fmvcmrnent Agencies. By Sending a Terrorist walﬁhllSI
Nomination cattle to NCTC. all potential LES. Government Tea attutsat seasoning

 

“art- Isat tattsitstls U.S.C.Ilt}1{a}t3]].

UHCMSE] FIEDHFDR ﬂFFICIAL USE DHLYISENSITIVE SECURITY INFﬂRhir'tTIﬂN

Page | 20

