UHCLASSIFIEDHFDH DFFICIAL USE. DHLWSEHSITIPE SECURITY INFﬂRMﬁTIDH

responsibilities should be accounted for.

L433 The I'll-[Id has approved a Protocol to govern 'I'ttittttlttlsl' nominations for its non-FBI
components. which requires components to provide the FBI with all 'T‘Ettttﬂt‘tlsm
Iht FDRtvtitTinH.1T The FBI is responsible for submitting watchl'tsting nominations based
on information received from other Dill components pursuant to the FFll's nomination
procedures.

IAEA [ll-l3 has designated the Under Secretary for ldcd as the Executive Agent for DHE‘
centralised ‘I'tisttﬂttisr watchlisling process and het'she shall be responsible for providing
a DHS wide-mechanism for nominating all identifying or Ill-:ttﬂt'in‘fﬁtt'v' IHFﬂRh-lnTiﬂl-J
about letdown or susPEL'rlit) Tlitttteitisrs to TIDE. IJHS Illicit is also responsible for
presiding trainingfccttlﬁcation programs to the components.

Lil's In providing information to NCTC for inclusion into TIDE. the treatments is responsible for
determining whether it may. by law. provide the information to MUTE. in accordance with
section lﬂ‘zlfdﬁo} of lIt‘l‘Pl't. This information shall be provided with any applicable caveats
or dissemination controls. which will be reﬂected in TIDE. The biographic and biometric
identifiers derived from this information will be deemed Utilit'ltlﬂ for passage to T3133
unless the ﬂalﬁmn'l'olt designates them as ”TIDE Restricted." as outlined in Addendum B to
the TEE erect

LEI} HCTC Actions and Processes. HCTC reviews 'I'ettattalsT nominations from Federal
Departments or r'tgencics (Hommat‘etttﬂ as described in Paragraph LEE.

Lil In determining whether an individual is a ttMIltt-‘H or susrlithED Tsattttals'r'. HE'I‘C will rely
on the designation of means ‘l'tittttﬂttlsi“‘ provided by the Neatlhla‘l‘ott as presumptively
valid. This presumption can be overcome if HL‘TC has specific and credible information
widtin its possession that such designation is not appropriate. at which point NLTC will
provide such information to the nomination.

LEE In reviewing whether to include the TliltltIJItII-ihl tut-‘tntncvrlon about the snows- or EtittPIi-ITI‘EIJ
Tttttttﬂttls‘i" in TIDE. HE'I‘C reviews the totality of infemtat-ion. The totality of information is
evaluated based on the experience of the reviewer. and the facts and rational inferences that
may be drawn from those facts. including past conduct. current actions. and credible
intelligence concerning future conduct. As part of this review, HC'I‘C will determine iftlte
information pertains to. or is related to. 113thﬂltlI-ih-l. TIDE includes 'I'Is'ItltﬂFtlSh-l in roamstion
on strove: or stisssrnt-zo 'IERRDRIS‘I'S and may include additional Taaaoaisss lHFﬂlth'lh'l'lﬂ'l-i'
beyond what meets the minimum substantive derogatory and identifying criteria required for
nominations to the TEDB. as described in Paragraph Lid. Upon conclusion of HCTC‘s
review. HLTC will either accept or reject the nomination:

 

1‘ See Appendis 't'. [tut Fieloeol on Terrorist Nominations-

UNCLASS] FIEDHF'D-l-t DEFICIAL USE ﬂNLYfSENS-ITIVE SECURITY lNFﬂRMATIﬂH

Page Ill

