UHELASSI FIEDHFDR ﬂFFICL-ltL USE DHL‘WSEHSITITE SECURITY [NFﬂRMATIDH

'I'ttnttotttsr but are not alien spouses or ehildmn ol‘a 'I'aartottts'l'. For instance. the
father or brother oFa Tssnoalst' could have a record in TIDF. [also known as TIDE
Category Code Ititl}. Thus, these “other relatives" could he us. I'lilttiﬂblﬁ or non-
U.s. Intasons. identiﬁers for these other relations reside in TIDE but are not
esported to the TED for wateblisting. absent independent neataiarott‘r
Int-'onslonon. Instead, these records may be retained in TIDE l‘or analytic

purposes:

LEE-.23 Passports. Llnreeoeered Inst or stolen passports in the hands ofinternational
T cahoots-1s [also known as TIDE Eategory Code 39'}:

L531 .4 Associates. Individuals who have a deﬁned relationship with the renown or
suseeorsn T'I-IRRDRIET, but whose involvement with the snows or sust-ttoren
Test-tomsr's aetitrities is unknown {also known as TlDE Category Code 50};

I.53-2.5 Individuals with a Possible Nexus to Tannoalsat. Individuals with a
possible nesus to rarutotttstu auditor 'Il-Zthtlltlb‘T not'wtt'r bat for whom additional
nsntntnroa'r nerottsmtton is needed to meet the assent-titans susrteton standard
(also known as TIDE {lategory Code '99}.

1.54 Identiﬁcation of us. ransom Status in: TlllIE. NCTC analysts will review the totality oi"
information available on a subject to discern u.s. PttitsoN status prior to creating or
enhancing a record in TIDE. whenever possible. For existing TIDE record sI this status is
available to the anaiyst in the ﬁrst field ol'the TIDE record. In case of‘eaterna]
nominations or HHIMNL‘HMEHTS From the if}. the standard nomination template provides a
means for nostrnn'rons to identify that. reason status pursuant to Executive Drder i233}
and the Agency‘s speciﬁc guideiines. The ths. l'ltita‘tm status ﬁeld on the standard
nomination template is a required ﬁeld and it is the responsibility ol'eaeh Hostltlnrlno
not-LNG? to ensure the ﬁeld is properly annotated in accordance with established poiiey.

L55 Types oI'Records in TIDE and the T5115. Not all records in TIDE are included in the
TSDE. For example. records with reaostenrattt' IHFoastnTton that do not meet the
minimum derogatory standard or records that do not meet identifying information criteria
remain in TIDE and are not included in the TEDE, absent direction for temporary. threat
based categories pursuant to Paragraph 1 .59.“ The nominations process for TIDE records
that will he considered For entryr in the TS DB begins with an automated data transfer proeess
that moves an individual TIDE record containing the identity of a snows or susnlttfrtio
1'Ealttllttti'l' or other eaporta’ole category or record nominated For watchlisting to the TSDH.

Lib TEE Actions and Processes. The TSC's Single Review lQueue [SEQ] enables the TEE ‘s
Nominations and Data Integrity Unit [NDIU] to review each tthlown or stisPttL't'nlJ 'l EltttDHIE-i'l'

 

1': Certain categories of lllJn-‘l'EltI-‘tﬂltlli'l records {see Paragraph Lilli or nominations to the No Fly and Eeleelee List
based on an expedited Wli'b'lf of"ﬁ.1ll date of birth“ reoairernent {sec Paragraph it s} may also be eligible for inclusion
in the 'i'SDH.

UNCLASSIFIEDH’FDR {IFFICIAL USE ﬂNLTfSENSITI‘l-iE SECURITI’ INFDRJIIMTIDN

Page | E3

