UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR DF‘FICIAL USE DHLYFSEHEITIVE SECURITY IHFﬂHMATIﬂN

l.5ll.4 Within T2 hours ofcontacting the 'I‘SDC, the HttMtHnTUR must provide appropriate
follow‘up documentation that articulates, through either classiﬁed or unclassiﬁed means,
the substantive usaoca't'onv [HFGRHATIDH used to establish the basis t‘er 't'ctulorusr
watchlisting.

|.5'ii Esp-edited Nomination Procedures for Temporary, Tb rear—Based Categories. This
provision is intended to enable categories of individuals to be temporarily upgraded in
watehlist status based on current and credible intelligence inannation or a particular threat
stream that indicates a certain category of individuals may be used to eenduct an act cf
domestic or intemational tenant-used. This temporary, threat-basis! expedited upgrade {THU}
is made at the direction of the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism or hist'her designce {Apptepriate ﬂfﬁcial) and should be narrowly tailored to
addrcss the threat.

l .59.| The goal oFthis provision is to Fashion a watehlisting response that is appropriate to
the nature, speciﬁcity, and severity ofthe threat. To achieve this goal, in addition to
verifying the credibility ofthe threat intelligence, due consideration should be given to:

1.59.l .t The hand to public safety posed by the threat:

till .2 The clarity and speciﬁcity ofthe info rrnation giving rise to the threat as to
time, place, method, and identity of the suspected perpetrators;

I.Ss.l .3 The anticipated impact on international and domestic travel1 civil liberties
and Foreign relations; and.

l.59.l .4 The best available screening tools, other than the No Fly or Selectee Lists.
given the type and speciﬁcity of identiﬁers and travel dttttl.

LESLE When necessitated by exigent circumstances. and where there is current and credible
intelligence intimation or a particular threat stream that indicates a certain categely ef
individuals may be used to conduct an act of domestic or international 'I'Iiitltttitlt-ih'l, the
Appropriate Dfﬁcial may direct the TEE and HCTC to place categories of individuals
from 'I'lIJl-i or ‘l‘SDE on the hie Fly List, Selectee List. or into line 'I'EDH Fer up to 2’2
hours before concurrence is obtained from the Deputies or Principals Committee. To the
extent practicable, the initial direction to HCTC and TEE from the Appropriate Ofﬁcial
will be in writing. Absent DﬁumsTeav turtles-Inner: supporting individual nomination
er watehlist upgrade, ifwrittcn concurrence is not obtained within T2 hams efthc initial
direction to 't‘iiL‘ and HUI‘L‘, the 'I'Eit'j will automatically remove any individuals added
to the No Fly List, Selectec List, or 13133 pursuantto the THU, until such written
direction is received-

l.59_3 The addition of eategeries of individuals tn the He Fly List, Selectee List. er TEDI]
pursuant to Paragraph Li’s: shall be effected For a period of lime, consistent with the

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR UFFIEIAL 115E ﬂNLTFSENSI'l‘IVh‘. SEI‘SLlRJTb'r IHFDRMATIGH

Page i 25

