UNCLASSIFIEﬂﬂFﬂl-‘t ﬂFFICth USE {INLFJSENSITIVE SECURITY INFDHMATI'UN

nature of the threat involved. not to exceed 30 days but may be renewed For additional
Bil—day periods upon written approval ofthc Deputies or Principals 'Committee. A THU
is valid until the threat no longer esists. To the extent that such threat recedes or is
othenvise mitigated prior to the expiration of It] days or during any extension approved
by the Deputies or Principals Committee. 'l‘SC and HCI‘C and members of the
watchlisting community shall immediately request of the Deputies or Principals
Committee to downgrade these TB Us to their original or appropriate status. All threat—
based records transmitted through automated mechanisms (to. WLS. ECU] will include
a “THU indicator" at the message level to differentiate this category of records from
non—THU records and to provide the TBU directive for which U'H: record is upgraded-

LEE-ll Until such time as the Deputies or Principals provide additional, written guidance.
DUE will defer visa actions with respect to these espcdiled upgrades in watchlist status-

Lilli Departments and Agencies will advise the Deputies or Principals of ether
consequences that may result from a change in watchlist status and seek guidance as to
how to proceed.

l.5'§l.f:i filter these categorical moves are accomplished or renewed. there will be an
esp-edited procedure for the review of all tI.s. seasons that are part of the THU to ensure
their watehlistittg status is appropriate (including whether continued categorical
watehlistin g may be warranted based on the nature of the threat}.

Lot} Arbitration of 1Wetelilisting Disputes. Ifa noMINnTon wishes to dispute TSC’s
watchlisting determination. it may contact HCTC {for international Tttttaottls'l' nominations}
to discuss the watchiisting status andu'or submit additional substantive derogatory and
identifying lnfonnation to support its initial nomination. Additional information provided to
“ETC by a HDMINATﬂH will be passed to the 'l'SE' for review and final watehlisting
determination. In the case of an FBI dispute over the TSC’s watchlisting detenninalioc of an
international TEttltEtttIS'l"et nomination. a case agent must contact the TEC.

Lot In the case of domestic 'rtiaaoaIsT nominations. ifthe FBI wishes to dispute TSC’s
watchlisting determination. it may contact the TEE to discuss the watchlisting status andi'or
submit additional substantive derogatory and identifying information to support its initial
nomination.

Isl. I’RDCEDURES TD HEMDVE Alli ll'IlIlI‘i-I'IDUﬁL Flitﬂh'l TIIE WhTCIILIST

LEE ﬁt HDMIHnTott desiring to remove an intemational 1'Itttttoltls1' identity record previously
nominated to TIDE should contact HCTC and provide written justification for the request.
HC'I'C will promptly pmecss the request when received. HC'I'C will be the final arbiter of
whether the identity is removed from TIDE and TEE will he the ﬁnal arbiter of whether
'I'ea aotns‘t' mama-"nine are renewed from TSUB-

UHCLASSIFlEllffFﬂ-R ﬂFFlCIAL USE UNLI'IEEHSITIVE ErinE'f:l_llii.‘.lT"|'r INFﬂRh'IATlﬂ'H

Page | I?

