UNCLASS] HEDﬂFﬂR {JFFIC IAL USE ﬂHL't't'SENSITIVE SEt'Z'UﬂIT‘hr INFDRMATIDN

Lei}: ii'the ntossnvnttta requesting removal of an international TEtta-ottlat‘ identity reeord from
TIDE is the only HoMtnnToa to have provided information on that reeord, the removal request
will he immediately proeesaed hy NETS. The removal information is then sent to the T513.
whieh, in turn+ makes a determination regarding removal of the TEHRﬂttIST identity from the
TSDB.

1.64 if multiple nonttun't'oas have provided in Formation on an international 'Itstototttsr identity
reeord. HCI‘C will eoordinate with all relevant parties in an attempt to reaeh a eonsensus on
the Tseaoatst' identityis most appropriate watehlistin g status.

I 1:”le It" the multiple Hohtttvn‘rotts arrive at a oonsensus that the watehlisted identity is not
reasonably suspeeted of engaging in 'rattttoatstu andt'or 'I'ututoatst' activities, or an
applieahle exemption, the identity is removed from the TSDB and TIDE. ln eertain
o'ueumstanees. HC‘I‘C may retain reeords in TIDE to prevent inappropriate re-
walehlistlng.

Iii-1-2 If the multiple HUMIHn'rottt-‘t eanoot arrive at a consensus regarding the watehlist'tng
status of an identity. TEE may deeide to remove the identity from the TSDB. hut HCI'C
may retain the identity in 'I'IDE.

1.64.] For cases in which the FBI has eondaeted an investigation on an individual
{independently nominated by another emanates} and has eoneluded that the
watehiisted individual is not a Known or SUSPEETl-ZD 'rt-ttttttttttst', the individual may he
removed from the TS DB.“ In soeh eases. the 'rntutotttsT tosu'rtstans from the FEt‘s
investigation may he used to supplement the TIDE reeord.

1-65 The FBI will review domestie Tennotttst' identity removai requests aeeording to applieahle
l-‘Sl proeedures.

I .titi TSL‘ has an established, ongoing process to review every reeord in the “[3135 in aeeordanee
with Paragraph (Side) ofthe ISL“ Mt'JUand its mission under i-lSPD-o to maintain the most
thorough, aeeurate, and current information in the TS” H. ITTSC determines that the
watehlisting standards are not met for an individual reeord. TSC will remove the reeord from
the TSDB, in coordination with the Hﬂh'llﬂn'mvti ntttthlo‘t’.

I l. RE DR ESS PHDC EDU RES

Ltd? in January 1905, the 13-13 established a formal watehiist redress proeess that allows Ageneies

 

1” after an FBI determination that the indiv ideal is not a ttttovttv or susarrnto manuals'r. NCTC may determine
hasod on a Hustlttan'tlt‘s independent nominalt'on- that the individual should remain in TIDE as words that have been
fully vetted and should not he sereened against tTItJI-z Category Code tall]. the individual he wateltlieted based upon the
nosttnarott's independent detenninnion that the individual is a strewn or suavaereu reuaotusr or that the individual
warrants wetehtisting based upon an eeeeption to the season sate susPtetott standani

UNC LASSIF] EDHFDR ﬂFFIClAL USE ﬂl'tl LYISEHSITI 'v'E SECURITY INFﬂEMﬂTlﬂI‘H

Page | 13

