UNCLASSIFIEDHFGH DFFIC [AL USE ﬂNL‘t’t’SENSITIVE SECURI'I'Y lHFﬂRMhTIﬂN

that use TEDB data during a 'rtittttﬂlttSM sereening pro-eess to refer individuals‘ eemplaints to
the TEE if it appears the eom plaints may be related to the watehlisting preoess. The goal of
the watehlist redress process is to provide For timely and Fair review of individuals“
enraplaints and tn identiﬁr and eerrem anyl errant in the EDI}.

l .63 The watehlist redress process is a multi—Ageney process involving the HHS. TEE“. HL‘TE.
NﬂMINnTﬂRS. and SCREENERS. ﬂn September l9, EDW, Ageneies partioipatin g in the
watehlist redress pmeess. eseeuted the Hedi-ear MGU to set forth a coordinated redress: prneess
to respond to individual complaints about adverse screening experieneesdi'

I.d'.i TSC‘s Redress ﬂFﬁee is responsible for reeeiving1 trashing, and researehing watehlist-related
complaints that sealeanuns refer to TEE. I-‘or eaeh redress eomplaint reeeived. the Ftedress
til‘liee eonduets an inrdepth analysis to determine iFthe person‘s oomplaint is related to a
TEDH reeord. inelading a determination of whether the eornplainant is the watehlisted
individual or merely a nearsmateh to a watehlist reeord. If the eomplainant is the watehlisted
individual. the TEC‘s itedress Dt't‘iee will determine whether the watehlisted individual still
meets all the watehlisting eriteria.

LTD For eaeh eomplaint. the TEC Redress foiee eo-o-rdinates with the HGMINA'lt‘Ht {via NCTC
when the HDMtHATﬂtt is net the FBI}. who assists in the evaluation ol‘the eomplaint to ensure
the most eurrent. aeeorate. and thorough in l'ermatien available is used to review the person's
watehlist status. Where appropriate and warranted by the eurrent information and applieable
criteria. a person’s watehlist states may be adjusted tug, downgraded from the No Fly to
Seleetee irist or the person's identity may be removed entirely From the TSDB}. lithe redress
complaint was referred to the ﬁt: from the Di [5 Traveler Redress Inquiry Program {HHS
TRIP]. the individual‘s adjusted watehlist status will be provided to DHE 'I'RIP for issuanee of
an appropriate response.

If“ DHS “[1th is a single point ofeontaet for individuals who have inquiries or seelt resolution
regarding diﬂieulties they estp-eriet'tIJe during their travel screening er inspectien at. For
example. transportation hubs lilte airports. or when eroming [1.5. borders. The DHS TRIP
website is W. DHS TRIP ensures a thorough review is eompletsd by
eonsuitin g and sharing in formation with other DHS Components and other ﬁtgeneies. as
appropriate. to address the issues identiﬁed by the eomplainant.

III. PERIﬂDlC REVIEW BF THE WATCHLISTING GUIDANCE

LTE This Watehlisting Guidanee shall be reviewed no less than every two years Following the
eonelusion oi" the previous review, or as needed.

 

“ ses Appﬂ'ldilt a, assess: Moo; see: sea FM is. supra.
UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR DFFICIAL USE UNLYJSEHSITWE SECUﬂlTv lNFﬂRhIA'I‘IﬂN

Page | 2'9

