UHCLASSIFIEDHFDR DFFIt'JldiL USE DNLWEEHEITIVE SECURITY IHFD'RMATIDN

2.4.2 Dr any one of the following additional identiﬁers:

2.4.2. 1 Full date of birth [eight digit “mmi'ddi y yyy” format];
2.4.2.2 Passport number {with or without country of issuance};

2.4-2.3 Unique identifying numbers such as alien registration numbora. visa numhe to.
and social security numbers:

1.4.2.4 Telephone nuances)“;
2.4.2.5 E—ntail add rcssfesi'“;
2.4.2.15 License plate numberfs].

2.4.3 Dr any tire of the following additional identiﬁers”:

2.4.3.I Country of citinenship. ifdiffercnt from place of birth;
2.4.3.2 Place of birth (city or country}. if different from country of citizenship:
2.4.3.3 Iflit-ea or partial date of birth {partiah cg. i'iiﬁti; or range; tag. lii'ﬁti-i 9&5};

2.4.3.4 Full name ofan immediate family member fag. parent. spouse. sibling. or
children);

2.4.3.5 Occupation or current employer;

2.4.3.:3 Speciﬁc degrees received;

2.4.3.ir Schools attended;

2.4.3.3 Physical identiﬁers such as race. height. or weight;

2.4.3.3| Unique physical identiﬁers such as sears. merits or tattoos;

2.4.3. 1 [I Street address or other so l‘ﬁcientiy speciﬁc location information.

 

”ﬂnly unclassified phone numbers that are authorized for passage to Tit-“l“: pursuant to Paragraph Timiof addendum ii
to the 2515“ .te‘tii'ti'. will be included in TEiliil-l. See Append-is 4. Unclassiﬁed phone numbers will only be provided In
those scales-ions that have the technical capability to receive this deco.

11 ﬂuiy unclassiﬁed email addresses that are atnhctiaod for passage to T‘cit: pursuant to Paragraph 2tm1cfhddendunt I]
of the 32:2. .t-t'ﬂtt' will be included in TEDB. See .I'tppcndia 4. Unclassiﬁed email addresses will only be provided to
dance scastaiEasthat have the technical capability to receive this data.

3' as- required act-c. tttcte nnet be two distinct identiﬁers that must be sufﬁciently speciﬁc to nccnunt fer the large
number cfponibie matches common itlnttiliers may produce. Foresarnpic. ifcne identiﬁer is rather carnation tag.
physich identiﬁers}. the other identiﬁer ntusi he more speciﬁc to permit the screening ofﬁcial to successfully match a
record with an individual. its a funher example. a nomination with the last name listed as Ithaa. location listed as
Kabul. Afghanistan. and occupation listed as a halter alone would be insufﬁcient for screening purposes because it is
highly uniiitely a successful match could he made against such data. However. a nomination with the name listed as it.
Khan, location listed as residence of I 23 Sunshine Street. Kabui. Afghanistan. and occupation listed as a halter at stilt:
Battery, would he sufficient for screening purposes.

UNCLASEI FIEIJHFﬂ-H DFFICIAL USE DHLWSEHSITIVE SECURITY lNFﬂRMATIﬂN

Page | 31

