UNCLASSIFIEDHFDH OFFICIAL. USE GNLWSEHSI'I'IVE SECURITY INFGRMATIDH

ll

3.2

II.

3.3

3.4

CHAPTER 3: MINIMUM SUBSTANTIVE DERGGAT’GRV CRITERIA

INTHDDUCTIDH AND PURPUEE

TEE issued an updated U3. Gevemment Ptatecel Regarding 'l'errerist Heminatiens ea
February 25, Iﬂtlﬂ. that included an appendix identifying the minimum substantive deregatery
criteria far acceptance at suewtt er suseseree Tsaaeatst neminatiens inte the TSEJH-

Based en the attempted tenet attach at December 25, sees, the Watchlistin g Guidance was
reviewed te determine whether adjustments were needed. The revised guidance was appreved
by the White lieuse Deputies {Jammittee en May 25, 2|] It] and issued in the watehlisting
eemrnunity en .iuty Id, Edi ti, alter a multi-agency classiﬁcatien review.

This Chapter ef the Watchlisting Guidance has lacen updated te reflect the watchlisting
centntunity‘s experiences with the Guidance since issuance in July bf 10 It] by the Deputies
Cemmittee. ﬂﬂl‘: efthe mere ndtahle changes ef this updated versian efthe Watehiisting
Guidance is the restructuring ef instances fer when Pait'ltﬂtit.a atasn IIERﬂﬁhTﬂRT
IHFURMA'I'IGH is required- finethct netable change includes the re-intraduetien ef guidance
relative in the 'I'ItititDItIST facilitaters er suppertets frem an earlier versien efthe 1lh'atchiisting
Guidance and the inclusien ef additienal eaceptiens te the minimum substantive deregatery

standards fur TtittttﬂttlttT watchlisting that suppert immigratien and visa screening activities ef
the DGS and Ell-i3.

REASDNA BLE SUSPICIDN

Fer punt-rises ef watehlisting an individual te the TSDB. the Ht‘iMIHn'I'tJIt sheuld determine

whether there is denser-talus susvtcten that an individual is a strewn er SlidFl-ZC'I‘EI}
Tnaattatst' ‘E'

avasnnaaue sIIsPIEIdH. Te meet the tines-fitment sitsi-ttztrnv standard. the Minutemen,
based en the tetality efthe eiruumstunces. must rely upun articulable intelligence [Il'
inferrnatien which, taken tegether with ratienai inferences frem these facts, reasenahly
warrants a detenninatien that an individual is ltnetm er suspected te be er has been ltnewingly
engaged in cenduet eenstituting. in preparatinn fer. in aid ef. er related te TEE iteltIShi andt'er
teasearst aLTIVITIES. There must be an ehjeetive factual basis fer the attenuated in believe
that the individual is a sites-tat er suseeetsn t'eaaeatsr. Mere guesses er hunehes are net
sufﬁcient te eenstitute a iti-‘aittmattlst sust-ietttti that an individual is a titeuwtv er susettctstt
't't-1attuats'r. Reperting ef suspieieus activity alene that dees net meet the itlaastmauu-f
SUEI'itIIﬂIH stande set ferth herein is net a sufﬁcient basis te watchlist an individual- The
facts. hewever, given fair censidetatien. sheuld sensibly lead Ie the cenclusien that an
individual is, er has, engaged in Titan-tiniest andt'er ’I'Iauttutust' activities.

 

“ In instances where atmseuaule susercten is net teand. uestmateas dinetd atse determine whether the individual
sheuld be seminated te supperl immigratien and visa screening lay Dill-i and [NJ-S {see Chapter 3, Seetien it}.

UNCLMESIFIEDHFGH GFFIIZ'IAL USE GNLYIEEHSITIVE SECURITT [I'tl FGRMATIDN

Page | 33

