IJNELASSIFIEDHFGH UFFICIAL USE DNLWSEHSITIFE SECURITY IHFDRMATIGH

3.5

3.15

3-?

3.8

3.9

Due 1|tili'eight. ln detertnlning whether a Heat-tell itItIJ-L sitshtﬁttm esists, due weight should be
given to the speciﬁc reasonable inferences that a NtthtthTtttt is entitled to draw from the facts
in light of hisrl-tcr espcricncc and net on unfounded suspicions er hunches. Although
irrefutable evidence or concrete facts are not necessary, to be reasonable, suspicion should be
as clear and as fully developed as circumstances permit- For additional guidance regarding
the nomination of as reasons, .ree Paragraph 3.15.

soMtnnt'ees shall not nominate an individual based on source reportin g that noMtnnt'tNtt
personnel identify as, or know to be, unreliable or not credible. Single source infonnatien,
including but not limited to ‘bvallt-in”, “write—in", or postings on social media sites. however,
should not automatically be discounted rncrcly because of the manner in which it was
received. Instead, the reestttun'l'ltvti atttzrttrv should evaluate the credibility of the source, as
well as the nature and speciﬁcity of the information, and nominate even if that source is
uncorroborated, assuming the in formation supports a use sonatsLs sttsatetotv that the
individual is a shown or susPECt‘t-zlt ‘t‘t—ztttttsatsTer there is another basis for watchlistin g the
individual.

Criteria and Data Quality. To demonstrate that the nomination has sufﬁcient indieia of
reliability to support a consonants susrtetos determination, rtestttvsnrttt ant-:ttctcs should
incorporate processes designed to ensure that nominations are free of errors, and to the estcnt
possible given the nature ofthe reporting, have not come from seurees known or detenttincd
to be unreliable. Ntthtthtat'trtn net-:NCIss should, to the extent possible, verify the accuracy
and reliability ofthe information included in nominations. In addition to ensuring that
nominations are f rec from errors, Htshtlrot'ntte elements should implement procedures
designed to ensure that recalled or revised infonnatien is reviewed regularly, and dtat
necessary corrections to nominations based on those revisittnst'retraeliens are made.

Pnttt‘ttl‘trLantaen ItEIttJ-ttamav INF-immanent. PARTICUIJLMIJEEIJ oeanentnttv
thressta't'tert is the type of information relied on to determine whether ssasennats
ﬁUSPICIﬂN is met. This is information that demonstrates the nature efatt individual‘s er
group's association with TERHDttISht andl'er TEttitttltIt-rt‘ ntrt‘tvt'rtL-‘s that is descriptive and
speciﬁc to an event or activity, and is more than a label. For example, “Subject h'. provides
false travel documentation for nI-Qaida operatives" is re sth ULr'tltlltEn nseeoa'rettv
INFﬂEMthﬂh-l, whereas "Subject ‘t" is a supporter," standing alone. is not considered

Pr‘t R'I'I-Cllla'lt HIRED IJEHEl-[itt'lﬂl-l‘t' lNFﬂl-ltiv'l it'l‘it'lhi.

Potential Behavhtral Indicators. in making a sistsertautta suerCIeI-t determination,
Ntllvtll-MTGRS should consider behavioral indicators known to be associated with particular
its-own or susaseree'rssseatsts. The following is a list are few examples ofthose
indicators. It is not an exclusive list and it includes activity dtat may have innocent
explanations wholly unrelated to 'I'Etttttttttsht. Furthermore, some activities conducted by us.
reasons or activities [airing place within the United States, may he an csercise of rights
guaranteed by the First Amendment. lltitiatchiistittg an individual for engaging solely in

UNCLASSIFIEHHFGR ﬂFFICIAL USE ﬂNLYt'SEHSI'I‘IVE SECURITT IHFDRMATI'UN

Page | 3+1

