UNCLASSIFIEDHFUR ﬂFF’ECIhL USE ﬂHLWﬁ-ENSITIVE SECURITY IHF‘DHMATIGN

eenstitutienally pretected actiyitics is prehibited.“ Fer these rcasens, it is critical that each cf
these aetiyitics—as with all pessible indieatets cf 'Iaeatialsr ncTtley—nat bejudgea in
iselatien. Each must be yicwcd in the eentest in which it occurs and eensidered in
eembinatien with an ether ltnewn infunnatinn te ensure that any neminatien based in whele
er in part en this bcbayier cempcnts with the standards set fcrth abenrc:

3.9.l Attendance at training camps Itttewn tn the it: as facilitating itaititﬂals'r' am'tyn'lrts‘“;

3.9.3 Attendance at scheeisfinstitutiens identiﬁed by the ID as teaching an ideelegy that
includes the justificaticn ef the unlawful use cf yielenee er yiulcnt extremism:

3.9.3 Repeated ecntact with individuals identiﬁed by the [C as teaching er espeusing an
ideelegy that includes the justificatien cf the unlawful use ef yiclence cr yiclcnt
extremism; er,

3.9.4 Travel fer ne knewn law-Iii] er legitimate purpese In a locus ef't'tiitl-tﬂittﬁ'r nL‘TtyI‘t't'.

Ill. HNDWNTERRDRISTS
llﬂ Deﬁnitiuns.

3.ll].i ittiﬂwri Testicular. A KetthN WHRUHIS'I' is an indiyidual where the LLS.
Freyemment ltnews is engaged, has been engaged, er whc intends te engage in
’I‘EttFtﬂttISh-t andi'cr meatialst arrrtyi'r‘r, including an indiyidua] {a} whe has been
charged, arrested, indicted, er cenyictcd fur a crime related te 'l'I-',[-t HDRISH by LLS.
Geyemntent er fcreign geyeniment authuritics; ur (b) identified as a ‘I'tuttttjraltrl' er
member efa designated fereigtt ten‘erist crganiitatien pursuant tc statute, Executive
Order er internatienal legal cbligatien pursuant he a United Hatiens Security Cnuncil
Reselutiﬂn.

3. I I12 “mailman! andi'ur TEItttt‘tttIsT ntrtyn'lss. In general, TEHRﬂltTEih-T andfcr
Tsaaealst ac'rlyltlss are acts that: [a] inyciyc yielent acts er acts dangereus to human
life, prepcrty, er infrastructure that may be a yielatien cf LLB. law, er may haye been, if
these acts were cummittctl in the United States; and, [b] appear intended te intimidate er
cccrce a civilian p-epuiatien, inﬂ uencc the pulley ufa geyemmcnt by intimidaticn er
cﬂcrcien. er affect the eenduct efgeyernment by mass destructiun, assassinaticn,
kidnapping, er huslagc-talting. This includes actiyities that facilitate er suppert

 

“' See Chapter 1 . Euclid“ ill.

'1 Attendance at TERFtﬂttlsr training camps alene meets the sunset-tuttstsuslselﬂﬂ standard- Hate that under the INA
seelien 2 Is tugsysgtgyums use. llﬂiiaH3HHHiJ-Wlll1],an alien whet has received military-type training {as

de lined in section Illﬁllfeli l‘iefTitle IE, United Stiles {Tede't l'rnm er en behalfef any tn'ganiitatien that. at the time
the bainiag was received. was a Ierretisl etganiaaticn as defined in clause tyi}, is inadmissible. Nate else that ii LLSJZ.
section 133%} cﬁmtnatises receiving military type train ing frem I designated fereign terrcrist crganimlien-

UHCLASSIHEBHFDR ﬂFFlCIAL USE DNLWSENSITIVE SECURITY lNFﬂRMhTIﬂN

Page | 35

