UNCLASSIFIEDHF'DR DFFICIAL USE DNLWSEHSITIVE EEEUHIW IHFDRMATIDN

'fERRﬁHlSh-‘l andtor TERRDHIST ACTIVITIES.”

3-.l | Ty pas of Htttit‘wrt Tattxttltttrﬁ for 1Whom Ransom-rims SUSPICIDH ht Established by
Recognised Authority and for Whom Partieulariaed Derogatory Information is Not
Required.

3.| |-| Arrested or Convicted Ttittitt'tIIIIItt'ss'r's.'l'll Individuals who have been arrested or
convicted for not aoatsr set'tvt't't‘ are considered snows Texaoxtsts who should be
nominated. The arrest or conviction is presumed to meet the RttnsowaeLt-L SUSI'ICIDN
standard for watchlisting unless there is reason to believe that the information is
questionable (rag, faulty or erroneous}, oftlubious origin [c.g., poison pen, source
known to be unreliable, or politically motivated) or the result ofan unreliable process
{e.g., conviction by a court that docs not adhere to minimally acceptable due process
standards}. Nominations should include the charge, location, and date ofthe arrest or
conviction, ifavailablc.

3.1 1.2 Individuals Identiﬁed Pursuant to Statute or Executive Ctrdcrf‘ll Pursuant to
Executive Ctrder $214, as amended, “Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions
with Persons who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support "Terrorism," Executive
Ctrder Misti, as amended, “thibiting Transactions with Terrorists 1vtltl'ho Threaten to
Disrupt the Middle East Peace Process,” and section 302 ofthe Antiterrorism and
Effective Death Penalty Act of iiiilﬁ {AEDPA}, the US. Department of the Treasury‘s
Ethics of Foreign Assets Control tDt-‘ACJ publishes, updates, and maintains an
integrated and comprehensive list of designated parties with whom Uh. FEHSDHS are
prohibited from providing services or conducting traHsactiens and whose assets are
blocked. The names on this list include persons designated under country-based and
list-based economic sanctions programs, as well as individuals and entities designated
under the various Executive l[Strollers and Statutes aimed at 't't-Laxoatstvt. Persons
designated under Executive Order Issac, Executive Order 1294?, or the AEDPA are
included on this integrated and comprehensive list and are ‘Specially Designated Global
Terrorists‘ [SD-GTs}, ‘Spccittil y Designated 'l‘errorists’ (SD-Ts], or IForeign Terrorist

 

‘1 “ERRDRISH andl'or tattoos rsT strnvtttt-‘s include acts that the actor losews or reasonably should know affords
material support to any individual who the actor Erastus or reasonably should ltnow, has committed or plans to commit a
terrorist activity, to a terrorist organisation or to any member of such an organisation. Material support includes
providing a safe house, transportation, communications, funds, transfer of funds or other material beneﬁt, false
documentation or identiﬁcation, weapons {inciuding chemical, biological, or radiological WI'IS]. explosives. or
training for the commission of an act of't'tatxtixtsss andt'or “EHHUEIST sCttvt't'r.

“ See Paragraph 3.13-l for situations involving individuals who are acquitted or against whotn charge-s are dismissed
for a crime related to 1t:'xttotusst.

'5 These authorities generally authorise the Secretary of State {in consultation with either the Secretary of the Treasury,
1b: Niamey General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, ora combination thereof] to designate and bloc-it the asses
of foreign individuals and entities that commit, or pose a signiﬁcant tt'slt of committing. acts of't'ttsEﬂ-HJSt-t that threaten
the security ofU.S. nationals or the national security, foreign policy, or economy ofthe United States. Additionaliy,
icaders or members of I Foreign Terrorist Drganimion [FI'D], an Specially Designated lli'jlolial Terrorist [SDG'H under
Executive Drder 13224, or an organisation named to the Ten‘orisl Exclusion List {TEL} may be designated as a terrorist
organization by the Secretary of State for immigration purposes pursuant to this section I l2{a}tt,3 Jt'E-fttvi III} [E LI.S.C.

I I satays yayvtytn].

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR UFFICIAL USE ﬂNLYtSENSITIVE SECURITY INFDRMATIUH

Page I 36

