UH CLASSIFIEDHF'DR ﬂFFICIAL USE DH L'I'ISEHSITIVE SECURITY IN F DRMATIDN

3. I ll Individuals Who are Acquiltcd or for Where Ella rgeo are Dismissed. An
individual who is acquitted or against whom charges are dismissed for a crime minted to
regenerate may nevertheless meet the ttt-zasoanstts SUSPICICI-hl standard and
appropriately remain on. or be nominated to. the Terrorist Watehlist.” Each case should
be evaluated based on the feels ol‘the underlying activities. the circumstances
surrounding the acquittal or dismissal, and all known lJIit-tﬂﬁATﬁi-I‘t" lNl-‘URMA'HIDN to
determine if the individual should remain on the Terrorist Watehlist.

3.13.2 Individuals Identiﬁed as TERHDHJS'I'S Pennant to ﬂtber Internal [leparttaent or
Agency Processes. Departments or Ageneies that nominate individuals associated with
a terrorist group that is not designated by Statute or Executive Order [see Paragraph
ll LE) or groups that fall outside of the NIPF—CT eonstruet [see Paragraph 3.| IA) must
have internal procreatids tn review the activities ol'1'lili lttJatSTa and terrorist
organizations. So long as a Deparuﬂcnt’s or Agency‘s internal pnreess has determined
that a group is engaging in ran sontsst andior 'I‘Eil-‘tlttlﬂlST norm-nus. Hanatmnlsui
SUSPIEIIHN can be met for members of the group, or active participants in. that group‘s
11ittttnt-‘tlaT ALTWITlIs'S. Departments and Agencies that use this elause to recommend
subjects For 1nratehlisting are required to provide written notice to MUTE and TSC {an
email will suffice} of the Department or Agency‘s determination. llt'tihile members or
aetive participants or such groups may be nominated without Pna'rICULnJ-ttat-zo
oenooa't'oav lHFﬂﬂh-b't'l'lﬂi‘i. the watehlistin g of an individual pursuant to this clause
must be based on the determination by a Depat'trnertt or Ageney’s intemai processes that
the group is engaging in Tsattotusst El'ldsl'L'lI' Tensor-stat not'tvt't'tss. Heuual assoeiations
like janitorial, repair. or delivery services of commercial goods do not meet the
arunstainaLt-z suns-terns: standard.

3.13.3 Individuals Identifier] as TEItttﬂtttaTs Pu tenant to Agreements by US.
Government Agenciesiliorcige Governments for Sharing of'l'IJEItItDEtLST Identity
Data. The US. |Iiiovet-rattent may enter into agreements with foreign governments for
the sharing oFTEttnonts't' identity information. Pursuant to such agreements. data will
be provided to the TS-l'.‘ For TttrtaoalsT sereening, as required under HSPD—d. The
Information Sharing and Aeeess {ISA} Interageney Poliey Committee UPC} or an [PC-
designated interageney body, will make a determination. eounu-y by country. prior to the
Iinal agreement on whether the data provided will [1] be presumed to meet the standard
for inclusion in TSDB; or {2} undergo the Foreign Partner 1'v'ettirtg Process.

3. I 3.41 Individuals Identiﬁed as Associates or Afﬁliates ol‘ END-WM or maelstrom
Tendonrs'ra or Taanotusr lthrills or l'llntworlts.5D Individuals who are associated or
afﬁliated with a shown or susrae'rnu T'i-iR meter, or 't't-Ltutontsv cells or networks
should be nominated when there is ena’l'imiuntttrnu otittoon'tttttv lhll-‘ﬂllMATlLlH

 

” licenses: the amateurish”; attainment standard required for walehlisting is lower than that required for a criminal
conviction lie. beyond a reasonable doubt}. an individual that is acquitted or for where charges are dismissed may
gluiliiﬁ' I'nr wuel-i listing hosed on the Facts and eireumstnnees surrounding the sequinsl or dismissal-

This section applies as welt to persons “linked to," “related" and other similar desoriptors to a ”town or seawater]
TEIutottIsT. TERRIJRISI' eells or networks.

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDH ﬂFFIEIAL USE ﬂNL‘l’i’SENSITI‘t-“E SEillSIlRlTltir [HFDRMATIIGN
Pagel 33

