UNCLASSIFIEWJFDR ﬂFF’ICIAL USE ﬂNL‘t’fSENﬁITIVE SECURITY INFDHHIATIDN

regarding the contest ol‘the relationship that gives rise to a matsottaaut Sllfil'l-El-Df-i that
the individual is engaging or has engaged in conduct constituting, in preparation for, in
aid of. or related to teaaotttstu aadtor 't't-Laaottts'r acrtvt't'tss. Neutral associations such
as janitorial, repair. or delivery services of com mercial goods are not sufficient.
Information about the pertinent activities ofthe known or suspense ‘I'EHltﬂRIST,
'l‘I-iatttlltlsl' cell or network should be included in the nomination. These nominations
should include content or content tn demonstrate the membership, association, or
afﬁliation to the arrows or SUSPl-LtII'iiD ntttaoatst, T'Hltltﬂitlti’i' cell or network.
individuals who merely “may be“ members, associates or affiliates to a Ichttrist
organization may not he accepted into the 'I‘SDB. unless the aaasowaaLs SUSPltllElf-l
standard is met and Pennants-rattan osnoeatoav tut'oatuattutt accompanies the
nomination.

3.114.] laterences that Support sensor-vases susvtototv. armsouaata strsatetott
may he rationally inferred from Ihc contest of the relationship with the Emil-I'M or
susrisrt'eu 1 nttrtortts't'. The following factors should he considered when
determining whether ch‘ttiﬂMMiIJi suarrcrou may be inferred:

3.13.4.1 .I The nature ofthc activity engaged in with the itHﬂWl-l or susPtitmltt
TER ltﬂltlst';

3. I 3.4.1 .2 The frequency, duration, or manner oflhcir contact:

3. lid. 1! .3 ﬁt close, continuing, or direct relationship with a lthIr‘tvN or
susvtttmth Tanaoatsr that reasonably suggests the individual is knowingly
involved in or willfully supporting the known or suseacmo 'tttttaotttsr's
Tattttotttst' am‘tvmes: or.

3.] 3.4.1.4 ﬂther malevolent or illicit factors that can he articulated that would
support a asasoaattut susatetoht that the individual is engaging in
THE aotttsm andlor taukoats't' aet'rvtTttts.

Ii. I 3.5 Individuals Identiﬁed as ‘I'EltltﬂlitIST Facilitalors. Ttirtitﬂitlt-i'r' facilitators are
presumed to meet the aeasttttaacts susatctott standard. The nomination should include
l‘AR'l‘lL‘ULl'tltlEED DERﬂt‘iM‘GR‘r INFﬂltMr-t'flﬁltl concerning the type of“faoi|itation"
involved and the role of the facilitator when this information is known. Individuals who
are considered facilitators include, but are not limited to, financial fundraisers. document
forgets. travel facilitators, money launderers, and arms merchants. There must he
use sorta aLe EilfiFlCIﬁltl that the facilitator knew that his or her actions would aid in the
furtherance orTEttltt'lRISh-l andtor Tartaomst aortvnrt-zs-

Cl. I 3.5.l Criminal Activity So pporting 'nsltttoatsm. lf intelligence or information
indicates that the individual is engaging in criminal activity related tn smuggling,
providing safe houses, forging documents, or any other support to Tts'ltttﬂtttsrs or
terrorist groups. Httstneamlts should presume that the individual is knowingly
engaging in criminal activity that supports 'l'l-.' aaoatsat and! or 't't-zttaoats't'

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR ﬂFF’IClﬁL USE Dmv'lt'ff‘sEH SITW'E EECU RITE“ IHFﬂEMATIﬂN

Pagc| 39

