UNCLASS] FIEleFﬂI-I OFFICIAL USE ﬂHL‘t’fSEl‘iSITlVE EEC URIT‘F INFDRMATHJH

acnvrntes. In these circumstances. atsascwance SLISI‘ICIGH is based en the
TEttltﬂttlsr criminal activity and ahcuid he described in the neminaticn.

s. l as Individuals whu Incite {alters re cemrntt nee errne annrsntf' tnetttng an
individual tc ccmtnit an act ct' ‘l'I-IItHﬂl-‘UEM andfcr 'rraautttﬂ nCTIvl't'It-za under
circumstances that indicate an intenticn te- cause death cr sericus bcdily harm is
cunsidcred engaging in 11iﬂﬂﬂRlST acrrvtTv and is sufﬁcient in meet the seast‘maata
sust-tcttnt standard. The ncrninaticn eheutd include can‘t-renaissance Dls‘ltliﬂ'trt‘i'ﬂﬂ‘r
INFGH ntnTnste ccnceming the type cl'"incitetnent" invclvcd and the mic cf the
individual when this infcrmatien is known. Nermally. speech will nct rise tn the level of
”inciting" unless there is a clear link between the speech and an actual echrt tc
undertake the ventricular acrtvrrv. “the individual may have incited tenanntsr
nCTtvI’W. even if a termrist attacIt ducs nut actually cccur (age. because an attempt tn
ccmmit such activity is thwarted). Speech advccating a viulcnt cr dangercus TtitittﬂltlﬂT
nL'TivI'rv is incitement if such advccacy is directed tu inciting cr preducing imminent
lawless acticn and is likely tc incite cr pruduce such acticn}

3J1? lndividuah th Sclicit ﬂtltcn tc Engage in Teamsters-r acrtvrrttts. In an
individual capacity cr as a member of an crganizatinn, any individual whc sclicils
anethcr tc engage in a TERRﬂttla't‘ atrnvny andfcr fcr membership in a terrerist
crganiraticn is censidered tn be engaging in ‘I'IiR tthtISTac‘rtvt'rv. Heminaticns that
include PARTICULMIJEED cesma'mav mecca-tartan ccncerning the type cfseiicitatien
invclvcd and the mic cfthc individual are sufﬁcient tc meet the RMSGMIJLH sua'PIEtIZIH
standard. An individual may fall cuLsidc the sccpe cf engaging in thc sclicitaticn cf an
individual fer membership in a terrcri st ctganizaticn if there is infcrrnaticn that
demcnstrates that the individual did nct Itnuw and she-aid nct have reascnnhiy l-tncwn
that thc crganiraticn was a tcrrcrist crganizaticn.

3. I 3.3 Individuals Identiﬁed as Sympathiccra and Suppcrters cf a Designated Tcrrcrlst
Illrganiltatlntn.ﬂ Sympathieers and suppcrtcra cf a designated terrerist ergahiaatinn
[BTU] (see Paragraph 3.] I .2} may he watchlisted when the slatsdwnaLE SUSPIE‘lﬂI-t
standard is met, and the naminatinn includes Pnn'rtcumrttnrrc necessarcttv

INFDRMATIGH ccncemin g the haw the individual‘s activities warrant watchlisting. as

cppcscd lct information sheet why the crganiraticn is a DTC'.

3. I 3.3.l A sympathieer cr suppcrtct' et‘TeaRtstusett shculd be terminated if the suppcrt
is cpcraticnal in nature. If suppcrt is merely ideclcgicnl. the individual sheuld nut
be ncntinated.

 

" Fer sitnatiens where there is rtc PAR'HETUIA Elifﬂ'r usaccarrntv memvanctt. individuals may he watchlistcd as an
caccpticn tn the ttttastzrnaaLF. susrrclnn standard. hiss Paragraph 3. £4.15.

ﬂ .tesernn v. Free see-sen centres-n. see us. 114. I12 sci. lass tracer; a sane seas recs. “Advceacy erTenen'em
Met Always Enclusiunnry."

i" Fcr aintatinns where then: is ac Pan'l'lcmntttetar canctsnmttv tttt-‘tsantnnnn. supperters ed" a designated ten-crist
ctgnnieaticn {BTU} may he watehlistcd as an escepticn tn the scssttnaaus susetctcn standard. ates Paragraph 1Id-4.

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR DFFICIAL USE DNLYFSENSITIVE SECURITY INFDRMATIDN

Fagcl 4|]

