[.Ihi CLASSIFIEIIHFGR ﬂFFICIAL USE [IN LWSEHSITI‘H'E S ECURIT'!’ IH F I‘ll-RM ATIDN

leader Llsanta bin Laden on May 2. Elli 1.5“L Likewise, individuals listed on a roster ofan
JED ccll could be nominated solely on the presence of their name on the iist. i‘tn
identity from a captured passport. however, would only he watchlistcd if additional
reporting documents next-term FILE Sliﬁl'iﬂiﬂhi to believe that the individual is connected
to ttatnoatsxt andi'er ‘rtzssostst' nct'lvtTv.

3. I 3.] 3 Lions: weaves. Because the focus is on the individual’s Tsxaostsxt—related conduct.
“Ix'iHii woes" TEaxoxisTs should be nominated when t-xttt'tctnnateeu usaoon'itisv
IHFtixstntt on and their actions support a ttlcaseitxnua stint-mow that they an: engaged
in. or have engaged in. TEthﬂKlSh-t andfor TEI-tRﬂHIE-i'l' nC‘r'tvI'rnes. Ho present itnotvn
afﬁliation with a terror group1 organisation. or cell is required but prior afﬁliations if
they exist. may be taken into account for supporting a rational inference that the
individual is reasonably suspected ufettgaging in ‘J‘Itttttttttlsst andi'or TERRDHIST
xm'tvlt‘Jt-Ls.

V. EXCEP'I'IUNS 'I'U SIJ PPDRT IMMIGRATIDN AND VISA SCREENING
ACTIVITIES B‘t’ Ill-IS AND [IDS

3. iii TSDB Minimum Substantive Derogatory Exceptions to Support Immigration and 'v'tsa
Screening Activities by the DHS and DDS. The Watchiisting liiuidance contains certain
exceptions to the minimum substantive derogatory criteria for 'i'l-IR xtJItIST watchlisting that
support immigration and visa screening activities by the DI IS and DDS to determine whether
grounds exist to de ay admission of“ aliens to the United States {including denials of visas] or to
deny other immigration benefits pursuant to the INA.55 Pa n‘rlutitnltlxtip nEnﬂﬁx'mnv
JHI-‘ﬂnhtnttﬂhi is not required for nominations made pursuant to the following sections.
Because the INA deﬁnes “aliens” as “any person not a eititeen or national oFthe United
States‘ﬂ. the lhlr't admissibility provisions also apply to LPits. in certain circumstances
ineiuding those described in INA section lﬂl [HI I 3303113 U313. llﬂItjaﬂ I INCH. who are
censidercd as the. PE ssoxs under Executive {irrdcr I2333. ConsequentlyI HCTC developed a
mechanism in TIDE to identify and distinguish US. citizens from nun‘US. citizens in order
In further distinguish hetweett “aliens" under the lhiﬁt and LLS. I'HHEUHS under Executive
Order £3333. The t'oilowing subsections are exceptions to the nExsuHanLta stisrltntm
standard and will only be transmitted to DﬂE’s CLASS {via the D03 CCD) and Di [S‘s WLS
to support immigration and visa screening processes.

 

H Such documents-“media, host-ever, still need to be reviewed to ensure that innocent individunis are not erroneously
wattmlisled.
“ nan. section 11 Eiaﬂﬁﬂﬂh USE. ! IEEieHMiBJ] sets forth severai grounds For inadmissibility based on terrorist
activities. which is deﬁned in lhli't section 1|!{ah3ﬂﬂ-Iiiiilﬂ USE. lihﬂaﬂﬂﬂliiii]. Forexampic. lhidt section
3 IZEIKHBHEH ‘v'ili states that any ah'en who ”endorses or espouses terrorist activity or persuades others to endorse or
espouse tcrmrist activity or support a terrorist organization" is inadmissible to the United States- 8 H.533.
l iﬂliBﬂHHiﬁiiVllil. Mi uﬂler uses eilhc temt “terrorist activities" within this I|iii'aIchlisting Guidance that do not
:fmiﬁeally rel’ct'cnec the INA. i'ollotlir the deﬁnition outlined in Chapter I and Appendix 1.

See INA § lhiiaii3ifﬂ USE. ilﬂliaﬁiﬂ]-

UHCLASSIFIEIIHFDR DFFICIAL USE DHLYISENSITIVE SECURI'I‘Y INFGRL'IATIDN

Page lit!

