UNCLASSIFIEDHF‘DR ﬂFFlCIAL USE UNLYISENSITIFE SECURITY INFﬂRMATIDH

3. | 4.2 Endorscrs aurl Espuusors. rim alien who endorses or cspouses 'IEttntJRISTntJTtvtTv
or persuades others to endorse or espouse TERRURtST att't'tvtTv or support a [crrorist
organisation may be inadmissible under the INA. and should be nominated.

3. I 4.3 Incitemeut. Inciting an individual to commit an act of ‘t'tsttnottlsh-t andt'or ‘t‘I-ittattttIST
nC‘t'lvt‘t'v under circumstances that indicate an intention to cause death or serious hodin
harm is considered engaging in 'I'IianontsT atfrtvt‘rr. The individual may he
inadmissible under the INA and should be nominated.

3.14.4 Supporters of a Designated Terrorist Drgauiaation. Supporters ol‘a i'JTD may be
inadmissible under the INA and should be nominated it” the support is operational in
nature. If support is merely ideological. the individual should not be nominated.

3.I4.6 litcprescutativcs. Representatives of terrorist organisations and representatives
or ant“ political. social or other group that endorses or espouses TEHRtJHIST nertvt'r it
may be inadmissible under the th't and should be nominated. Representatives include
an officer. ofﬁcial. or spokesman of an organisation. and any person who directs.
counsels. commands. or induces an organisation to engage in 'IERHURIST nCTtvt‘t'v.
Neither membership in. our association with. the organisation or group is required.

3.14.6 Tltltttttlttst‘s. Extremists. Jihadists. Militants. Mujahideen or lﬂﬂﬂl‘gﬂ'ﬂﬁ‘m
Nominations of individuals described by sources as ‘WERRDRISIS". “extremists".
*ﬁibadists“. “militants“. “mujahideen” or “insurgents“m. {an exclusive list} will be
accepted into the ‘I'SDH. as exceptions for espert to DHS’ WLS and [105‘ CI .ASS—
‘v'ISﬁt and CLASS-PASSPDRT For immigration and border processing when the
Following four conditions apply:

3. 14.6.1 The individual is a not a US. Citizen or National [e.g.. the individual is a
foreign national ore LPIt}:

3.14.6.1 The contest suggests a moms to 'rEattotttsM;
3. i 4.6.3 Adequate identifiers are available to permit identiﬁcation“: and.
3. I 4.6.4 The information has been evaluated as being credible.

3. I 4.6.5 it is important to recognise that some activities associated with estrcmc
political or religious views expressed by aliens in the United States may constitute
the exercise of rights guaranteed by the First Amendment [e.g., the rights to free
speech. assembi y and religious etrercisei.M 'I'horeﬁrrc. someone so labeled based

 

” 'Ihis reception is commonly referred to as “label plus“ nomination.

'5“ Insurgency is deﬁned as an “organised movement“ aimed at drc overthrow ot'a constituted government through the
use of subversion and armed conﬂict

“‘1 An adequate identifier is a biometric. er a last name. ﬁrst name and any one of the additional identifiers listed in
Chapter 2. Section I].

“t” as Chaptcr 1. section III eoneenting mninIulienaliy protected activities.

UNCLASSIFIEIJHFDR ﬂFFlCIAL USE DHLWSENSITIVE SECURITY INFDRMATIDN

Page I 44

