UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR DFFICIAL USE ﬂHLWSENEITﬂ-I'E SECURIT't" lNFﬂRMATIﬂN

in part on this type oi‘eonstitutionally protected activity, must have other
substantive etstttitmItToxt' IhlI-‘ﬂlth-Mhﬂi-i indicative ot‘TsttnoatsT intent. Fiﬁ

previously noted, nominations may not be made base-ti solely on protected activity.

1”,? Additional Derogatory Information Required {TIDE Itirade-gory Cede 99's and
sass NCTC will retain a record in TIDE if it is determined that the information pertains
to. or is related to. Tat-thematic.“ Howe-leer.r if a record involving an alien, which
includes LPIits. does not contain sufficient Dﬂxﬂﬂn'rﬂat‘ tNFthttitn't'I-DN to meet any of
the aforementioned exceptions to the TS DB‘s attasonaan Ellﬁl'i-tht‘tat standard For
inclusion, HL‘TC'. will generally designate the record as a Category Code 99 [the TIDE
eategery cotle “applied when neaooamay wsossernon tines not meet the
REASﬂNaata SUSPICIDN standard for watchlisting because it is very limited or of
suspected reliability but there is a possible nexus to THE acetate“) or a Category Code 5!]
{the TIDE category code applied when an indisiduai has a deﬁned relationship with tlte
ttMttwt-i n1- .‘iIJEPFﬂlED tttttttrtatst', hut whose involvement with the xnnwn nr SLJEPECTH}
TsttttttFtIS'i"S activities is unkl'lDWTﬂﬂ. making it ayaiiabie For expert to TSDD for use by
III-DE and D] is For 'tt'ia'tt adjudication and immigration processing.

VI. SPECIALCDHSIDERATIDNS

3. i s Nominations of us seasons. Nominations of as. seasons. in accordance with the .I'tncntey
General approved procedures applicable to each element el‘the IE“, will be matte pursuant to
the procedures set forth below to ensure compliance with this tttinmhtatttx sust'tCttth.‘
standard. Nominations of us. Pertsuws shall be made based on information from sources of
known reliability or where there exists additional corroboration or context supporting
stmsenaate sust-teton. nnsonxnno nottnettss will review int‘onnstion en es. seasons
pursuant to procedures set l'orth below consistent with the nature nfthc reporting supporting
the nomination and the protection of sources and methods.

3. I it Special handling is warranted for this. reasons nominated for watchtisting, especially
by an Agency other than the FBI. To ensure compliance with the 1tit-I'atehlisting Guidance
that the ttta'tstttantstte susm tttt'tN standard exists for 1:35. t'rtttsﬂttti in the TEDB. as well as
to ensure proper interagency coordination+ a Formal process has been implemented that:

3.15.].l Ensures the FBI is aware of U.t-i. FERSDNS nominated by any other Department
or Agency;

 

1" See Pasagﬂph LIE.

‘5 hire H~l 13. sewer.

'5‘ The referenced procedures are those approved for each element of the It: pursuant to Executive Drder ”333. as
amended. which states in relevant pert. "Elements of the Intelligence Community are and-ten'xeel tn sit-Item1 retain, or
dissent ittate infesrnlticn concerning United States persons only in acceteanee with pmeedttres established by the head
of the Intelligence Community element concerned or by the bend of: Department containing such element and
wsprotred by the Albany General, consistent with the authorities provided by part I or this Order aﬁer etatsttltltien
with the Director." See Executiyeﬂrder l23 33. Paragraph 2.3, as amended by Exetxttitre ﬁnder I3till [l uly ti. ED] 1}.

UNCLASSIFIEDJ'fFﬂI-t ﬂFF’ICIﬁL USE ﬂNLWSENSI'I'I‘i-I’E SECURITY lHFﬂHhI'IATI-DN

Page | 45

