UNELAESIFIEDHF {1R DFFIEIAL USE DHLW‘SENSITIVE iiiEItTIJl-iLIT'tr INFURMATIEIH

4.5

415

IV.

4.?

ND FLY LIST CRJTERIA

Any persen. regardless el‘eitiaenship, whe represents:

4.5. l a threat ef'eemmitting an aet ef“internaliettal Tt-tttttutttst-t" {as deﬁned in iii H.513.
233 l [1)] er “denteslie 'rttrtattittattt“ [as deﬁned in IE H.513. 233 Hit} with respect te an
aireraﬁ. {ineluding a threat el‘ air piraey. er a threat te airline. passenger. er eivil aviatien
semrrity]; er,

4.5.2 a threat el'eemmitting an aet el"“demestie Tatttteatstrt" {as deﬁned in [ii 1.1.513.
ass I (st) with respeet te the hemelandn; er,

4.5-3 a threat et‘ eemmitting an aet ef “internatienal TIERRﬂHIﬁM" {as defined in IE U313.
2331“}t against any US. ﬂevemment l'aeility abread and asseeiated er sup-petting
persennel. ineluding U .3. em bassies, eensulates and missiens. military installatinns {as
deﬁned by It) U512. Eﬂﬁi [ell-{4}}. US. ships. U3. aircraft, at ether auxiliary erai’t
ewned er leased by the US. ﬁevernmeat; er.

4-5.4 a threat efengaging in er eendueting a vielent aet et' ‘rttaaetttsat and whe is
eresartertatty capstan-L” starting an.

Detainees at the Naval Statinn. Gun nta name Hay, lElisha. Any individual whe was a
“detainee" held at the Naval Statien. Guantaname Bay. Cuba. unless the President eertiﬁes in
writing te lIL'iengress that the detainee peses nu threat in the llnited States. its eitisens, er its
allies. Fer purpeses el‘this subparagraph, the term “detainee" means an individual in the
eustedy er tinder the physieal eentrel et‘ the United States as a result et" armed eenlliet.“I

FURTHER CLARIFICATIHN ("IF THE ND FLY CRITERIA

Third He Fly List Criterien. l‘rier tn the ndditien et‘ the third hie Fly List eriterien {see
Paragraph 4.5.3}, a eeneem ever the breadth eftite hie Fly List arese when anewtt er
susPECTEL‘t Tsaaetttsw wlte pesed a threat la a US. military base averseas did net meet the
criteria fer inelusien en the hie Fly List. Despite natienal interests. the threat tn the everseas
military base did net invelve either eivil aviatien {as set ferth in the ﬁrst He Fly List eriterien]
at an set efdemestie 't'sttaeatsat te the hemeland {as set ferth in the seeend hie Fly List
eriten'en}. “Demestie Terrarisrn" requires that a subjeet's 'raa aestst‘ aeTtvtTtss eeeur
primarily within the territerialjurisdietien et" the United States. “Hemeland“ dees net inelude
bases and embassies leeated abread. Even in these instanees when the It: had identiﬁed a
strewn er EIISPIEC‘I'ILD 'I'saaeatsr‘s speeiﬁe target. ttttetvrt er SUSPECI‘HIJ Taeaeatsts
maintained the advantage efeperatienal ﬂexibility. The third Ne Fly List eri terien addresses

 

"i Demestie sets er'tt-Ltttteatsa-I are tiers: that primarily eeeur “within the tern‘terial jan‘sdietien er the United States.“
.‘iee IE H.517. IEJIISHCJ.

“ See Paragraph -t.tt.2. r'rrjre. that deﬁnes ‘ﬂstzaatitma LI.‘I' {'AI'hﬂLti. “

"' Ste as use. saaesﬁasaeavt.

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR DFFIEIAL USE DHLWSEHSITIVE SECURITY [NFDRMATIDH

Page [ 5|

