UHCLASSIF I EDtl't'F {1R DFFIEIAL USE DNLTJSENSITIVE Slilt'.'.'l.iI-H"l"hr INFﬂRMt-thﬂﬂ

4.3.3.15 Subject is associated with a misnomer greupicelt and the subjeet is
accumulating weaponsleaplosives.

4.9 UPEMTIHHALLF CAPAELE Scenarios. The three scenarios set forth below serve as some
examples of No Fly List nominations that would fall under tlte fourth No Fly List criterion:

4.9.I There is credible infottnation that the planning or preparation for a transmitter attack
against the interests of the United States or a foreign government is ongoing and there is
an indication that an individual is oust-nitIot~tnt.t.tr ca Mina:

4.9.2 There is credible information that an individual is linked with an organization known to
target US. interests. The actual target may be unknown but indicated to be a
commercial facility frequented by [1.5. citizens abroad- Intelligence identiﬁes an
operational or pro-operational capability of this individual whose eell is planning a near-
tertn attack on a target [e.g.. a plot to kill U3. nationals residing in a foreign hotel or
frequenting a foreign nightclub}: or.

4.9.?- There is credible in formation that an individual is linked with an organization known to
target foreign governments. The actual target may be unknown but indicated to be a
foreign government facility such as an embassy. consulate. mission or military
installation. Intelligence identiﬁes an operational or pre-operational capability of this
individual whose cell is planning a near-term attack on a target fag. a plot to bomb the
British Parliament or the March I I. 2004. lvlttdrid bombing}.

ti. I'll ﬂue—Time Waiver Policy.

4- Till Tlln regulations prohibit UE. flagged air carriers and foreign flagged air carriers
from transporting individuals. who pose the level of threat required for No Fly status. on
regulated commercial flights. including all flights operated by U.S. air earricrs
regardless of the location. and ﬂights operated by foreign air carriers to. from. or over
the United States. This prohibition applies regardless of the individual‘s status as a us.
FEES-Dbl.

4.lll.2 When necessary. the U.S. Government may authorize and grant a Line Time Waiver
{UTW} to an air carrier penuitting the oatrier to transport an individual on a speciﬁed
itinerary under controlled conditions. DT‘Ws are coordinated with DHS [including CHI"
and TEA}. FBI. DDS and Hill as appropriate. prior to being authorized by TEE. |L‘lrtee
authorised by TEE. TEA will review dtc conditions oftransport and may grant the
waiver. pennining the air carrier to transport the individual. lftlte itinerary changes. or
the conditions of transport ofthe individual change. 'I'St’t will deny boarding to the
individual until such time as satisfactory conditions are present.

4.1t‘t.3 u.s. reasons En countered ﬂveraeas.

4. l 0.3.] While placement on the ltlo 1in List does not legally bar a Ltd. PEREDN from

UNCLASEIFIEDHFDR ﬂFFICIAL USE DNLTISEHETHVE SECURITY lNFﬂRl'l-I'IATIDN

Page | 53

