U HCLAS SI FIEDHFDH DFFICIAL USE. DNLWSEHSITIVE SECUR IT‘it" INFEIRMATIDN

4. | 3 The actiens resulting frem inctusten en the Ne Fly. Selectee, er Expanded Selectcc List arc
generatLv as fellevrs:

4. I 3.: Individuals that are PDSI'I'WE matches in the He Fl}.r List are prehibited frern
bearding an aircraft:

4. I 3.2 Individuals that are Pesn'nat MA’J‘CHHS re the Seieclcc List underge enhanced
screening prier te bearding an aircraft;

4.13.3 Individuals that are restttvt-Latn'rcneste the Expanded Selectee List underge
enhanced screening prier tn bearding an aircraft.

4. i 4 Selectec. Eapandcd Selectee. and randern screening all result in the same eperatienai respense
ef receiving enhanced screening by Transpertatien Securin Ufﬁcers prier te bearding an
aircraft. TEA w'd'i netify the TEE efttll Ne Fiat, Eclectcc. and tint pended Selectce
ItNCttLrtiﬁtts.

VIII. IMPLEMENTATIUH GUIDELINES

4. t 5 General Guidelines. The watchlisting cemmunity has develepcd sis general guidelines
regarding the bin i-‘i_v and Selectee Lists that shuuld be reentpbasived in erdcr te effectively
implement the He til}.r List and Selectec List criteria. The sis general guidelines are:

4- i 5.] WIIBI'I evaluating the significance, relevance and validityr cf a threat. careful
censidcrtttien sheuld be given te the etttcnt te which the threat is current. specific and
credible.

4. i 5.2 The Selectee List is net a default pesitien fer these whe de net qualify fer inclusien
en the He Fljv List and has distinct elements that must be met befere an individual may
be included.

4. l 5.3 The purpese ef the Ne Fijv List is te pretcct against acts ef TEtttttJttltSh-t: inclusien en
the Ne Fl}.r List has censequcnccs met an: epcratienal, legal. ecenemic. and diplematic.

4. l 5.4 tiscept fer expedited neminatiens made pursuant te Paragraph L53 ef the
1|lil’atchiisting Guidance. the decisien te include a persen en the He Flv List er Selectee
List must include substantive ease-earner thirtietnnt'teht that satisﬁes the
afercmentiencd criteria and thusjustiﬁcs inclusien en either iist. in cases where
nentinatiens centain ne substantive esccsaa'rettv IHI‘DHIvMTlﬂN, er centain insufficient
substantive eaneeamav necenatartett. the individual will net be included en either the
hie F13.r List er Selectec List.

4. l 5.5 In accerdance with detertninatiens made pursuant te Paragraph LE? ef the

Watchlisting Guidancel the 1lit-"bite Heuse may direct tlte TEE te place catcgeries ef
individuals en the bin Fly List at- the Seiectcc Listen a tempﬂtary basis based en current

UHCLﬁSSIFIEfoFﬂR DFFIEIAL USE DHLWSEHSITIVE SECURITY INFﬂRilt-‘IATIIIH

Page f 55

