UH CLASSIFIEDHFIJR ﬂFFICIAL USE UNLYISEHSITIVE iiiIi'atl'liﬂ'JT'tIr IHFDRMATIDN

and credible intelligence in fennatien er a particular threat stream that indicates a eenain
catcgery ef individuals may cenduet an act efdemestie er intentatienal 'I'Isattttatsst.

4. t 5.6 Under exigent nperatienal circumstances. when esannat'eev Investments may net
be widely disseminated er slered in TIDE. individual walehlist status deterrninatiens can
be made by the Directer ef the TEE. in aeeerdance with the relevant criteria“ centaincd
in the Watchlisling Guidance. Ceerdinatien shenld eccur 1with relevant HDMtHaTINtt
attendees and StttEENERS.

It. I I5 'l'utality ef the lefertnatiee. The feregeing guidance is neither intended in be determinative
ner intended tn serve as a checklist. Rather. it is intended te guide the tvatcblisting
cemmunity in assessing whether the established criteria are satisﬁed fer a speciﬁc recerd.
based en the tetality cf available infermatien. a current threat stream. endler the current threat
envirenment.

Ia. svscrat. stTearters"

4J1" Requirement fer Fall blames and Cempiete Dates at Birth. Generally. Tssttetun
identities neminated In either the He Fly er the Selectec List must have bath a full name and a
cempletc date ef birth. identities withettt beth will usually net be included en either list.
Bates cf birth shall nut be fabricated.“

ti. I 'i'.i There is. heweven a nan-cw eaccptien tn the requirement fer full names and
eempiete dates ef birth fer individuals frem nen-‘v'isa Waiver Pregram ceuntries fer
intematienal 11-'.Itttttttts"r nerninatiens. If a nen-‘v'isa Waiver Pregrain ceantry“ has
issued a travel decument with enly a year ef birth. er a veriﬁed gevernmcnt-issued
identiﬁcatien decument with enly a year ef birth. then it is permissible In use enly that
year ef birth. The nesttttn'rntu anrtnev. hewevcr. shenld. whenever pussible. specify
the type efdecument eenlaining the year ef birth. and the passpert number {ifthc
decument is a passpert}. ﬂthervvise. a year ef birth alune will net be accepted fer
neminatiens tn the He lily er EeleeIee Lists. The sestran'rttte stir-.Ivcv has a cnntinuing
ebltgatien in attempt te determine the eempletc date ef birth.

4. I E Eapedited Waiver at “Full Date el' Birth“I Requirement fer He Fly er Eclectee
Neminatieas. When necessitated by esi gent circumstances. a Husttttn'ttttt may neminatc an
individual er individuals in the hie i-‘ly er Selectee List with enly a partial date ef birth. but fer
whem there is additienal identifying infennatien. This previsinn is intended te enable
neminatiens based en current and credible intelligence infeimatien er a particular threat

 

"' Determinatiens made under this seet'ten apply In the Ne Fly. Selectec and Expanded Selectec List criteria.

11 See Paragraph 1.5? fera eempietc diseesslen el' expedite-d eerainatien pmeedures fer temperary. tJ'Ire-atrbased
eaiegnries.

" The dates el'birth ef January I [ﬁlMlt'msL July I tat-retain]. Member I I [t In Ham]. and December at
{llftifirtrss} are examples efdates dtal may be fabricated and as such. sheuld neeeive addiliertal scrutiny at all stages ef
the repening. mattinatien. and watehlisting ptc-eess.

" 1Ilisa Waiver Pregnant eeuntrics include a cernpletc date at birth in their passperts.

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR ﬂFFICIrlLL USE ﬂHLYfSENSITIVE SECURITY [NFDRMATIﬂH

Page i 5d

