UH ELAEEIFIEDHFDR ﬂFFIEIAL USE DNLYfSEHSITIVE SECURITY IHFDRMATIDN

CHAPTER]: WATCHLISTING PRDCESS AND PRDCEDURES

I. INTRﬂDUCTIﬂH

Li A key foundation for 'l'EltltDttltiTJ-relate-ti screening is the LLB. Govern ment's 'l‘Etttu'tt‘tt-‘ttttt'
watehlisting process managed by the Terrorist Screening lt'Ienter {THC}. The Tait: was
established by the Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Federal Bureau of
investigation {FBI}. and in coordination with the Seeretery of State. the Secretary of
Homeland Security. and the then Director of |fientoal intelligence for the intelligence
Community {iii}. The TEE is supported by the National Counterterrorisnt Center fHCTC}.
the Department of State {DDS}. the Department of Homeland Security (DI IS}. the [(1. the FBI.
law Enforcement Agencies, Regulatory Agencies and Diplomatic Bureaus. The TEE has
created and maintains the Terrorist Screening Database {TSDB} or Terrorist 1Ili'atehiist to serve
as the LLB. Governme nt's consolidated watehtist for Tsaaoatsrvt soannntao IN FtJithlA'l'lt‘tH.

l .1 The current ’t't—iltttﬂtttST watehlisting process supports the LLB- Fnivcmment’s efforts to eomhat
'l'liEtltDltiShI'E by: {I} consolidating the 1.1.5. Government‘s Terrorist 1|ilt'atehiist in the TSDB; {2]
helping scar-.ENEtts and intelligence ageneies accurately identiﬁ.r individuals on the 'l‘errorist
Watehlist; {3} providing scant-truths with information to help them respond appropriately
during ENCDLFthl-thli with arrows or Htlhl'litj‘l'iil) TEltHDitltii'fS; and. (4] subsequently collecting
information about the Known or SUSPECTED tassoatsr for use in assessing threats and
conducting investigations."E The collected information may be incorporated into the 'ferrori st
Identities Datamart Environment {TIDE} and TEDB to en hanee the records of KNDWN or
SUSPEE't't-Ltt italtltDFtISTE. and may be made available to the wider walc hlisting and sereenin g
communities. Today, the TEDE also includes information about certain foreign nationals who
are associated with Tuaaoatsst. Tsanotttst' aortvrrv. or snows: or Etlﬁl’liC‘l'l-LD itaasoatst'fs]
but for whom there is insufﬁcient osaooa‘roav introttstnt'ton to be independently
watchlisted. This may include certain immediate family members of tttsotlm or SUSPECTED
Tsaaoats'rs. or ltnown associates uftttvttwtv or StJSPl-LEI'IED 'rsaaoatsts. These additional
categories of records [also ltnown as exceptions to the ttFnsoHnttt.E susrtetﬂat standard]: are
maintgined to support immigration and screening aetivities primarily conducted by DES and
Di [5.

 

' .i'ee Appendix 1. Deﬁnitions for words or phrases appearing in all eapitaiiaed letters throughout this I|t'tl'at-ehlisting
ﬂu Manse.
1 A sensor-inn is a Department or Agency that is authorised to conduct TERMJRIEM screening to determine if an
individual is a possible match to a sraavrt or EitJFiPECT‘ED ‘I'IiR Flﬂl-llli'f in the TEDB. "the term “MTRIEl-Jtllilit" is used
throughout this document as a general refer-cues to a govemment ofﬁcial who compete-s an individuat‘s information
with infonnation in the TEDB to determine if an individual is in the "ti-:Dtt. Certain suttEtTueas have components
which perform both screening and law enfonseuteut duties and law enforcement ofﬁcials who engage in sueh activities
may nomtaIIy describe their targeting or other actions in this conteﬂ as other than I‘serta-ntittg." For ease of reference.
government officials who oentpare an individual's information with information in the TSDB will be refen‘ed to in the
Guidance as “scatterer-trots." The internal guidance set forth herein is not intended to create or con fer any rights.
grivileges. or beneﬁts in any matter, ease. or proceeding. See [Jetted States v. [Merits 4'10 U3. TM I.

See Chapter 3. Section 'tf. tit-ﬁe. for more details. Aside from these limited exceptions. rcftmn'loes to the TEDB in this
1t'fatehliatit'tg Guidance denote the T's-DB as containing information about ltHIJ'iI-rt-t or sttsr‘tiﬂ'ED 'I'ERH-t'ritth'ttt.

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR DFFICIAL USE ﬂHLYfSENSITWE SEED lil‘.IT"t'.r IHF'DRMATIDH

Page | 5

