UNCLASSIFIEDHFDH DFFIE'IAL USE DNLYISEHSITIblE l‘ililll'llUl-HT'E'r [NFﬂRMATIﬂH

II.

5.3

5.4

Individuals in vnlvcd in transnational 'l'liRRﬁle-ib'l:

5-2.2.l.2 threats posed by such groups or individuals to the United States. its.
PERSﬂNS. or US. interests. or to those nfother nations;

5.2.2.1.} cmnmunicatinns ofor by such groups or individuals; or.

5.2.2. I .4 groups or individuals reasonably believed to be assisting or associated
with such groups or individuals; and

5.2-2.2 includes weapons of mass destruction information.

5.2.2.2-l Weapons of Mass Destruction Information. Information that could
reasonably be expected to assist in the development. proliferation. or use nfa
weapon of mass destruction [ including a chemical. biological. radiological. or
nuclear weapon} that could be used by a TsltantttsT or a terrorist organization
against the United States. including infonrtation about the location of any stockpile
of nuclear materials that could be exploited for use in such a weapon that could be
used by a "lttltaottrsT or a terrorist organisation against the United States.

FHUCESEING TERRDRISM INFDRMATIDN FHDM ENCDUNTEHS
WITH PﬂSITIVELY [BENTIFIED KNDWN DR SUSPECT ED
TERRﬂRISTS

This section describes the major types of liNL‘tltIHT'EItS by various Departments and Agencies-
amous'nsa sauna-:3 as obtained from a snows or suseta: ran "nae soatsT Itucouurtta will be
processed as follows:

“apartment of Homeland Security encoustaas. Dl Is has more encount'ans with
shown or suer-Lcrnn 'rttanorusTs than any minor US. Government component. The
descriptions below pmvide information for the majority of D] is HutitJtEHTﬂtts. although it is
not an exhaustive list of EHUDUHTER opportunities or the types ol‘leauoatsat ruroasta'rtou
available for collection- When lawful and available. both biographie and biometric
information will be collected as part ofthe trundle-area Peasant-t.

5.4.l u.s. Customs and Border Protection. EEP encouu'tattsoceur at ports of entry
[POE]. between PDEs. or at the last point oFdeparture to the United States at foreign
airports through CEP programs like Pro-Clearance and the immigration Advisory
Program [In P}. Information available for collection from these rzucutrrt'rsas may
includc. but is not limited to. peel-Let litter. travel information. identification documents.
travel companions. legal documents. and other information gathered during interviews
and the examination process. {'13P receives international travel reservation inforrnation
of'tcblﬂ‘n-‘H or susrttmt-LD TliltttthESTS for commercial air travel to and from the United
States {which may include Lmvel comyrnnion information} and international private and

UNCLAEEIFIEIJHFDH ﬂFFICLdtL USE DNLYISEHSITIVE SECURITY INFURMATI'UH

Page | 59

 

