UNCLASSIFIEDHFHR ﬂFF’ICIAL USE ﬂHLTiSE-HSITIVE SECURITY IHFDHMATIIDN

sitcom-traits ttttown or siisttsernn 'IIiHRﬂHIS'I‘S who ﬁle petitions or applications for
immigration bcttcﬁts internationally and domestically.“5 The USCIS ofﬁcial contacts
the 1St3 to report an encotinrttn with a KNtJWN or stiscttot'uo TEFtItﬂiitlti-‘I'. Before
making a decision on the immigration application or hene lit. USCIS contacts the
ontotnn't't‘ittittonttttn'mtt to obtain additional in formation that may help determine
whether the individual is eligible or ineligible to receive the immigration benefit. In
such cases, USCJS seeks funher information from the record owner or ease agent and
may seek. dc-classiﬁcation of information relating to the application. In addition, USCIS
contacts the ontonvnrottntonttun'tos to discuss whether the USEIS decision to grant or
deny the application or beneﬁt would interrupt or negatively affect any ongoing
investigation.

5.4.3.| USCIS maintains a presence at lav.r enforcement and intelligence Agency
entities to Further information sharing regarding snows or SUSPECTED
Titan-timers. USCIS maintains information, including the subject‘s t'tlicn File [A-
i-'ilc] and other records. The type of inliztrtnation that may be contained in USCIS
ﬁles. including the iii-Filo, could be biometric data {Ii ngerprints and photographs};
identity documents+ information misting to the application; addresses, as well as
family and worit history information; immigration honcl'tt application information;
and records of previous snmonwns that DHS has had with the subject- Either
SCttHI-lttt-Itttt — as well as other appropriate orgmivations who are considering
nominating a potential Known or SUSFEL'TEI‘I meaoats't' or who have EHEUUN'I‘ERS
with a person who is a PUStt'tvti MnTeH to a ttttﬂvm or SUSPEETBD tenaﬂtttfnh are
advised that they can request. on a casc-by-case basis. a copy of the KNEW or
susvsoteu'rttusottts'r‘s tit—File t'ront USCIS it‘the snows or suseccrtsn
't't-ztt ttﬂItJS't' has applied for immigration or citizenship beneﬁtsa‘i'

5.4.4 [1.5. Immigration and Customs Ettforccment. lmmigratioas and Customs
Enforcement {ICE} is the principal investigative arm DFD] [5. ICE is also the federal
law enforcement organization responsible For immigration and cumulus-related
investigations and detention within the interior and at the borders of the United States.
ICE Frequently uncoum'sns potential KNIJWH or sosttcci'ttu riotttoatsrs tin ring
enforcement activities under its purview. Such Eiittlﬂttht‘l‘tttts are documented within ICE
Enforcement and Ftetttoval Operations {ERﬂ} via the Known Suspected Terrorist
Encounter Prtstocol and reported to the TSC and lCE‘s Homeland Security
Investigations {HSE} ICE HSI Special agents frequently encounter KHtt‘ivN or
SIISPIEt'ﬂ'I-Il] 'rcnt-tottts't‘s internationally. domestically. at US. Willis. and when HNHWN or
susvucmu TERRﬂRISTS are the subjects ot‘an [CE investigation. These encotmrnss arc

 

'5 For ctttamplt:1 at us. Pita.st who is a ttHthvHoi-susttemmtnaaﬂntst may ﬁle a petition for a Foreign national or a
US. PERSDH who is not a Known orsttsI'tE-tft‘FJJ TrdtitﬂttJST may ﬁle a petition for a foreign national who is a ﬂHﬂ'ﬂW or
SiISFlelE‘IEIJ l'ERRCﬂIS-T.

" Because USCtS is the custodian of infonrtation acquired tItmugh the immigration process relating to an individual
and became. the A-File is not: routinely attached to the "ISDB or TIDE. a speciﬁc request to Lt'SE IS is necessary in order
ti: obtain inrmnﬂthitt't from the Avliilc.

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR DFFICIAL USE UNLYJ’SENSITIVE SECURIT‘F IHFDRHATIDN

Pagc|ﬁl

