UNCLASSIFIEDH'FDH DFFIC'IAL USE- DNL‘WSEHSITIVE EiEilCiiJIiilTitIr IHFDRMATIDN

documented by liSl Special Agents in Reports of Investigation {EDI}. All Bills
documenting encounreasii ntervicws with a Known or sust-soreo Tsaaoatsr are
shared with the IC.

54.4.1 In addition. under section 423 of the Homeland Security Act. the Secretary of
Homeland Security has the authority to refuse visas in accordance with the law and
to assign employees ofDl-iS to diplomatic and consular posts to review visa
applications and conduct investigations.IT lCE. through the Visa Security
Program. exercises this authority- Reviews of visa applications and interviews
with applicants can result in the encounter of snow" or SUSPEC'I'EIITiiRItﬂRlSTS.
facilitators. and associates as well as reveal previously unknown information
relating to uptown or sttsrutrrt-Lo TaaaetttsTs. HSI personnel assigned to the ‘ti'isa
Security Program. and to U.S. Embmsies and Consulates abroad. worlt closely
with their D05 counterparts to identify awowu cr suseuotan ntaaoats'rs and
report lindin gs through established processes. Finally. [CE may encounter t-thiowtt
or sttsauoTno Tnaaoats't's awaiting immigration hearings who are housed in
service processingl'dctcntion centers- These detention facilities can document
interactions with the aliens while they are detained in the faciiity. as well as
document materials found on the individual at the time of pat-cussing. For all
immigration and enforcement activities. ICE will communicate with the TSC
regarding encounters with watchlisted individuals. and will submit relevant
ﬁrazourt't't-La information to the 'I‘SC.

5.4.5 United States Coast Guard. The US. Coast Cuard‘s Coastwatch branch screens crew
and passenger inlbrmatiort on vessel manifests. which are required by regulation to be
transmitted to the National ‘v'esscl Movement Center [N‘v'lv‘lC] prior to a vessel‘s arrival
in a US. port. Coasttvateh communicates with the i'v-lTC-liI and TSC regarding any
ttrtttwrt or SUSI’CCTEDTERREIRIST IaMtstttN'i'EttS during this process. The Coast 'Guard
physically encounters few ithlﬂ‘tli'hl or nonmetal} 'rEttiitti-ttthTs. and such encotni'ratts
could occur from random and regular inspections of vessels and port facilities. ship
boardings. investigations. or Coast |[Iiuard licensing activities. The tyw of information
available for collection is dependenton the type of nacotin't'ea. The t:t~tt:ot.uvrtttt1 and
any corresponding information. is communicated to the TSC through Coast Guard
[mice of Intelligence and Criminal investigations. Based on the encountering situation.
intelligence reporting will be written to provide situational awareness to the [C.

5.4.6 United States Secret Service. Although United States Secret Service [USSS] does not
encounter many ttritttvta or SUSPECTED t'EttRﬂRtsta. such ENCCtUt-l'fti'ﬂS usually involve
EHﬂWN or suseem'no'rnaaotnsrs with a domestic nettus to Ten aotttsttt. Such
encounters can be the result of investigations or for event screening (cg. National
Security Special Events. political events. large scale sporting events]. These

 

" Consistent with section 1123 of the Homeland Security Act and the Memorandum of Understanding between the
Sizer-emits: elf-Side and Hemefemd Securfﬁ' furrow-ting Implementation elf-Section {33 dffﬂe’ .ft'ﬂmefﬂndb'e‘trufiftr r‘lc't' Sf
.‘i'tfiril’. the Secretary ofEiorttcland Security may direct a omsular ofﬁcer to relitcc or rcvoltc a visa.

Ul‘i CLASS! FIEDHFDE CIFFICIAL USE ﬂNLYfSE-NSHIVE SIi'.l'.Zi.lR]'I"I'r lHFﬂRIl-‘IATICN

Pagelﬁi

