UNCLhSSIFlEDHFDR ﬂFFlCIAL USE ﬂHINFSENSITIVE SEC URIT'I!’ INFﬂ-RM hTIUN

't‘erttteiuset transit-tantra en the attenuates Inf'erntatien List gathered during the
ItNL‘tZtLtH‘t'Eit. Previsien ei‘ anyr material enileeted by the i'ercign partner depends an the
arrangement with, and legal autherities ef'. the particular fereign partner invelvcd. 'lhcrct'cre,
gathering and sharing this Teaatialsst IHFt'nt unite-H will be dene en a ease-by-ease. ceuntry-
by—ceuntry basis.

5.3 Federal Eurﬂu nfllvuttigatinnfuw EttI'tire-ement ENCDUNTEILE. These EHL‘EZ'IJNTERS can
be subdivided inte three categerics:

5.3.I Heme-Based Queries. Name—based transaction queries by law eni‘ercerncnt persunnel
tag. traffic steps) made tn the FEi-i‘s Hatinnal Crime In Fermatien Center at the Criminal
Justiee [rtﬁan‘na'lien Services [(1115) L‘Iivisien that match a name in the HSTF [a sub-file
et‘ HCIC} are deemed in be PDTENTIM. statutes. They are reuted electrenieaily te Ttit':
t‘er eenﬁnnatien and eubecaueat pmccssing as an EHEt‘J-iiNTliFt.

5.3.2 Fingerprintsﬂased Queriw. Fingerprint-based queries submitted t'ar criminal
identiﬁestien purpases [e.g., an anestt'heelting} er fer civil identiﬁcatien purpesca tag.
an empleyment background check] are made in the integrated Autematic Fingerpri nt
identiﬁeatien System {th‘lS}. Fer Hisrt'lvls Mn'l'L‘lies tn recerds ﬂagged as ttNﬂ't-FH er
stisnae'mn TaaaeaIsT resents, the C115 Divisien's Special identities Unit netiﬁes the
TEE and the FBI case agent {er the Agency that identified the subject as a pessible
Teaaents'r]. In similar fashien. CJIS Divisien‘s ﬁiehal Initiatives Unit eeertiiaatee
Pesitive ﬁngerprint hits frent its fereiga submissiens with the Legal anaehe. It shettld

be noted that [AFIS and HEIC are separate systems that are net fully synchrunired at the
present time.

5.3.3 I'tlatianal Instant Criminal ﬂaeltgreund Cheek System. All backgreund checks
resulting frem attempts tn buy ﬁrearms er te nhtain esplesive permits submitted tn the
Hatienal instant Criminal iiackgreund ﬂhecit System (H ICE} at CJIS are run against the
ﬂﬁ'l'li. The 'I‘SE is immediately nntit‘ied et‘all KS‘I'ir‘ "hits.” NICE censults with TEE
tc- ceniirm the Fusl'tivn Mn‘i‘enes and thc Flill case agent in determine whether there is
available inFennatian abeut the prespeetivc purchaser te disqualily him er her Frem
pessessing a lineann er esplcsive as a matter ef law. Regardless nfwhcdwr the
purchase is denied er permitted in preeecd. all available inlannaticn is obtained and
previded tn the TEE and, in tern, ETI‘J, as 'I'Et‘tttﬂttism IHFEIRMA'I'IGN and precessed as an
ENCHU’NTIiR.

5.9 Department e-I' Defense ENCGUHI‘ERS. The Department afDelense [Biz-D} has farce
pmleetien. epetatinnal capturetapprchcnd. and intelligence respansibilities and en eccasian
enceunters tthin er SUSPECTEI) 'I't-Ltttttittlms. 'l'e the estent Dell line-wing] y encounters a
l-ttvuwrt er sUsPlie‘t‘IEtz-‘t'eattﬂttttii'. Del] will repert thc FHITIJUH'I'EH in intelligence channels er
in the FBI in cases described in the MDU between the FE] and Del} Gaverning lnferntatien
Sharing. ﬂperatiena] liII-cset'dinatien and Investigative Respnnsibilities signed August 2., Etili
where the FBI is the feed. In eases where the FBI is net the lead Fur the EHCﬂUH'I'l-th. the

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDE DFFICHLL USE DNLYISENSI'I'IVE SECURITY INFORMATION

Mealti-i

