UNELASSIFIEDHFDR DFFICIAL USE ﬂHlthSEHSITH'E lE'iECIJIitIT'ltr IHFDHMATIDH

|.3

Isl

LS

H5

'l1tis Watchlisting Guidance has been developed to help standardize the watehlistia g
community's nomination and screening processes. It is important to remember, however, that
watehlisting is not an exact science. There are inherent limitations in any primarily name-
based system and analytic judgments may differ regarding whether subjective criteria have
been met, tiiven three realities, the US. Government‘s watehlisting process attempts to
safeguard the American people from a 1'ttttttnntst' attaclr. while safeguarding privacy, eivii
rights and civil liberties.

Thus, when reasonable minds could disagree on a record, a Hexttnx'ttttt will matte a
determination in Favor of sending the nomination to MUTE for consideration and additional
review. The TSC has the ﬁnal decision authority regarding watehlisting determinations and
will add an individual's name to the TSDB, consistent with TSC Actions and Processes as
further described in Paragraph Lib.

WATCHLISTING AUTHﬂRITIES

Dn September Id, 2W3, the President issued Homeland Security Presidential Directive ti
tHSI‘D-e}, which directed the Attorney General to “establish an organisation to consolidate
the [1.5. Government‘s approach to TEttttotttsM SCREEHtNtt and provide for the appropriate
and lawful use ot‘reeeostm' INFUHMA'I'IDH in screening proeesses."'1 TER sotttsr
IHI-‘ttttxtat'tttht was speciﬁcally deﬁned to mean ”information about individuals known or
appropriately suspected to be or have been engaged in conduct constituting, in preparation for.
in aid of, or related to Tuttxttatsst." HSF has also directed the heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies to provide to HCTC on an on—going basis, “all appropriate
‘I'Itttttﬂlttst' tt~t FttttstrtTteH in their possession, custody, or control," to the extertt permitted by
low.

The intent at asap—s was to consolidate all Tttttttontsxt tnr'oestrt‘rton at the Terrorist Threat
Integration Center {THC} — whose Functions were assumed by HC'I‘Cj — in a classiﬁed
database that would then extract Unclassiﬁed, For Di'ﬁeial Use Dnly [UHFDUDJ Tenn-timer
toxnnness for passage to the new organization created by the Anomey General. Thus.
concurrent with the issuance of ilSl-‘D—ti, the TSC was established via the Memorandum of
Understanding on the Integration and Use ofScreenting tnfnrtnrttt'en tc' Protect Against
Terrertirns [Thti' MDL’}, which was signed by the Attorney General, the Secretaries of State
and Homeland Security, and the Director of Central Intelligence {on behalfof'the |C}.'5

 

‘ See Appendix 2, HSPDuti.

=‘ See Fbt a. tape.

" See Appendix .‘ti, 'th't'? Wit; see art-to Appendix 4, Addendum B to the 'tliit’.‘ MET-“U. 1n 20M, the Escrow-ties oft-Hate,
Treasury, and Defense also became signatories to the Hemoromnrnr ofUndet-rroediag eenveen the taretttﬁgenee
(“ommnntrg Federal tea-r thatcrcenrent Agencies. and the Dewrtnrent at'Hoet-enxnrt.‘teenrtt_v Concerning trp'brnunton
snorting, dated March It, 2003 [tnfornsnrton ether-org Mﬂtt}. lily doing so, may agreed that all pmvisiens of the TEE
.Htitttand the Infants-tartan Sharing “ﬂu apply to all entities that are or been-me a part of their respective Departments.

HNCLASSI FlEDttFDR DFFICIAL USE. UHLYEENSITIFE SECURITY INFURMATIDN

Page | e

