UNCLASSI FIE DHFDR ﬂFF‘lE] AI.- USE ﬂl'liLYi’S-ENSITIVE SECURITY lHFﬂRMATI-DH

Tliititﬂltls'l'ii designated as No Fl}...r or assoeiated with violent aetivitv; or at the request of
an}...r Department or Agency that identiﬁes a need.

5.1 1' Results ot‘ttvl‘ttnt. asvuttv. aovntveeo nsntssts, and Tnsosrso asatssts efforts
{eolleetivelv. “Exploitation"ll by Departtnenls or t'tgeneies will be reported to the watohlisting.
soreening and eountertertorisnt eom munities using standard templates when available.

5.]1I TEE actions.

5. l T. i .I First Stage Iteview. 'I‘St: aetions with snows or SUSPECTIED Tsauoats'r
emeotMEtts oeeur in two stages. The first stage oeeurs when the ENCGLIT'H‘EHINE]
nesnev and TSC eaehange Tsasotttst llJli'NTIFIERE-i to determine whether the
individual is watehlisted (tie, a Pﬂiil'l'ltI't-t MM'L‘I—I to a T'SlilH record}. TSC reeords
any new 'l‘iiltiteitlst'lllENTlFlEhs ptovided during this stage in 'l'SC's EMA
applieation.

5. l T. l .2 Seeond stage Review. The seeond stage oeeurs after TSC has conﬁrmed
there is a Hismvt; atatett to a asowtv or HtltiFtiC’l'lin Tsaaoatsr. Foe eaeh
ItosITIvt-t beaten to a snows or susPtierIit} Ttts Resist. the 1312‘s th‘tee of
lntelligenee [TSCfDi] will generate an HR for dissemination to the
oounterterrorisrn eont ntunitgir that provides a summary about the KNEWH or
susltlie11-1o Tnsaottts'r eseuus'ree {e.g., hasie faets about the ENCDUN'IEH. sueh as
date, time. and plate}. Ifavailahle at the time the initial HR. is prepared, TSEIDI
will oonauet an lHl'l'lnL ssvtsw ol'the roteount'sa enemas and provide a
thumbnail su mmary of the TERRUHISM I'r-lI-‘ﬂtit lvlh'l'ldlv. For esam ole. a so mmary
might highlight the esistenee ofa new shows or seat-sense ‘rss ttotttsr (“shower
or sussse‘reo Tl-Iltl-tﬂt-‘tlST was traveling with three other associates not previously
identiﬁed in the ear where the explosives were found in a hidden eompartmertt”) or
the possibility that new Tattaoals'l' testes-tees are available (“approximately lit}
pages earried by the tttvotvrv or susveertio Tattaotost were eonvertetl to eleetronie
doeurnents ranging from the mower or sussael'eo 'I'Iiaaoalsr’s ealeadariaddress
hook to bank amount and credit card numbers”).

5. I T2 National Media Exploitation Center Actions. Mueh of the TEltl-toltISM
lHl-‘ﬂlth-tMTﬂH generated by saeotothss from a person who is a Pit-stove states to a
KNUWH or :sLJtiPEﬂ'i-lljt Tls'ltitﬂﬁlti'l' is eapeeted to he in a foreign language that magir hinder
prompt exploitation- The National Media Es ploitatioa Center [NM EC] has the
capability to translate foreign language in fortnation and the espett'enee neeessary to
understand the efforts used to hide their activities- When TSC reeeives ENﬂﬂUHTlilt
PACKAGES with information in a foreign language. or when HCTC receives them
directly from an teasers-reams AGENCY, TEE or HCTIZ'.‘ will forwardlrtotif}r HMEC that
it has the aetion to translate the ewe‘ﬂtlti'l'tilt Pthtntis. {thee the ENL‘tJth'Itilt Patitaﬁls‘
has been translated and telemed to THE and HCTC. the assigned roles and responsilaiiitgir
for exploitation will apply.

UNCLASSIFIEthFﬂl-t {JFFIEIAL USE ﬂHL‘t’i‘EENSITlVE SEED RIT'I' INFﬂRMATIDN

Page | T2

