UHCLAESIFIEDHFDR DFFICIAL USE DNLWSEHSITIVE SECURIT‘I' IHFDHMATI'DN

iili Information Sharing MDIJ Requirements. Departments and Agencies are reminded of
their agrecntcnt to provide transparency between and among them with regard to thrill“
“activities to preempt, prevent, and disrupt sennoms'r attacks against Us. III-:ltsﬂhls and
interests?" As a practical matter, that type of transparency demands, to the greatest extent
possible. prior coordination with affected Departments or Agencies before action within a
De pa rtmenl or A gcncy‘s authorities is talten based on TEttJtoltlsM IHFonstnﬂoN from a person
who is a rostTIvr. stereo to a tit-town er sttsrscrso ‘rssnoatsT. For example, I-‘lsl, Central
Intelligence Agency {CIA} or DDD, as lead countertcrrotism Agencies in their respective
domains. must be consulted prior to taking any action based on EHeoLrhITERs with a person
who is a Positive Mn‘t'ett with Known oristlsPeE't'iilJ ‘I'Eitltﬂttlii‘l'. This guidance is subject to
ettisting policies and coordination procedures when action against or pertaining to the Known
or snsrlacn'rzo 'l'liltlltt'litlfiT is contemplated.

5. I ‘3 Requests for Withholding of Action. In certain circumstances, law enforcement or the IC
may request that a nenItEHEI-t not talte action fag. not to refuse the visa, to allow individual to
enter the United States, to not deny an individual to obtain an immigration beneﬁt or access to
the secure area of an airport} although action may be talten under the law. This request, to the
etttent practicable, shall be in writing, by a senior ofﬁcial, and include a statement of
justiﬁcation and risk mitigation. Departments and Agencies will establish mutually
acceptable processes and procedures to implement a detailed plan.

'v'll. EXAMPLES [1F TERRDRISM IN FDRMATIDN T‘b"P'ItlII.t!ltLL'tt‘r
AVAILABLE F RUM ENCDUNTEHS

5.20 The following examples of various types of ENL‘othTEtts and the type of information typically
generated from those Fueetln'n—iﬁs is offered to assist Departments and Agencies in
understanding what additional or new in formation may become available as a result of
following the guidance provided in this document.

5.2M Ports of Entry. Types of documents that could be included in the titteourﬁlitt
PACKAGE typically include:
I. Business cards
2. Copies of passport and visa entries

 

I“ lice I'atagraph Sib] oftl'tc hubris-anion Sharing MGUtApp-endin 5]: “Reciprocity and Transparency. All infonnatioo
collected by any entity relevant to the missions and responsibilities of any other covered entities should be shared. to the
greatest estmt possible. between and mung all coventd initlties. Likewise, the patties agree that, to the greatest extent
possible, there should be trlnspdtreney between and stoning the covered entities with regard to llteir deﬂation! to preempt,
prevent, and disrupt 'rtsttttottIsT attaelts against tt.s. Pt-L‘Rﬂ'lﬂﬁ and interests. Escort as ndrerwise speciﬁed in this
Agreement, or mandated by relevant Federal statutes or Presidential Directives, procedures and mechanisms for
information sharing, use. and handling shall be interpreted and implemented consistently and reciprocally regardless of
the role a particular covered entity plays as a provider or recipient of covered inl’omtstion. In other words, for example.
international 't‘FJtI-tt'ﬂtlﬁhll theorists-non collected by the Border Patml should be shared by oils with due It: to the same
extent [weigh intelligence in furrnalion on tcanoetsu is sham] by the If! with Ell-I5.“

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR UFFICIAL USE DHLWSEHEITIVE SEC [llitlT't' INFDRAIATIDH

T4

 

Page

