[iHCIshESIFIE ﬂffFﬂR ﬂFFICIAL USE DHLWSENEITIVE [-iEtI'ILTIi'JT":Ir INFﬂRl'l-‘IATIDH

-|-

sewasew

iii.
H.
II.
l3.
14.

Driver‘s licercse

Resumes

Conference literaturc

Correspondence not in possession of the US. Postal Service.
Letters of introduction

iiheclta. bank deposit slips

Calendarfsehcdttle

Address boolt

Notepad entries

Mariner‘s certiﬁcates

Telephone data

Location and duration of previous travel stops on cement or past travel
itinerary

5.31.2 law Enforcement EHCGUNTEns- Information collected from law enforcement
HHL‘ﬂllﬁ'l'ls‘llS with a person who is a PDEIH‘H'E march to a moans or lilJSPEIZ‘TIiI‘J
’I‘ttn t-‘toitts't' can include any in formation that would be collected when a lat-tr enforcement
officcr speaks with a tttsown or susrtttrtsu tennonts'r. Typically in Formation that
could be included in the EHEEIUH'I‘ER PAt'Jt-tAtil-L can inciude. but is not limited to:

FHPWF‘PH.‘

Associates

T clephone numbcrs theme. business. cell. pager, or fan]
Uther forms of identification

Physical descriptors

Family members

thoupation and work history

Travel plans or history

1'il'ehicle information

5.21.1.3 ‘iiisa Applications. A typical DDS FNL‘tJLJN'I't-Lit PACKAGE with a person who is a
t-ost't'wt'. MA'I'cH to a KHIJW'N or so srtttrt'tto t'nttttonts'r will be a visa application for
entry to the United States. which identiﬁes basic information about the encountered
shown or susneort-to Tnaaontst" and the ssoounren. Types ofdocuntenls that could
be included in the anomalies Pacsaoe typically include:

i.

2
3.
4-
5

PFFH?

Home and work address

Copies of passport and 1twists entries

National identiﬁcation ”Number {if applicable to the country}
Phone numbers (home. business. call. pager. or fair)

Sponsorship information {when available. to include indieidual‘s
nameft'lompanyfﬁosern o1cnt1 address and contact information}
Family member names {c.g. spouse. parents, children}

Police Certiﬁcates [if applicabch

Biometrics [Photos and Fingerprint Identiﬁcation Number [Firm
Resumes {when applying for business visas}

Letters of introduction

UNCLASSIHEBHFQE ﬂFFlClAL USE {)HLYIEEHSITI VE SECURITY INFDRMATIDH

Page | T5

