UNCLASEIFIEDHFGH DFFIEIAL USE DHLYISEHSITITE SFJIII'JllI-IIT"!r INFDRMATIﬂH

1.?

LE

Under HSPD-ﬁ. eensistent with the LLB. Censtitutien and applicable laws. including these
pretecting the rights et'all i'tmerieans, the TEE was In develep and maintain an unclassiﬁed
database centaining the mast thereugh. accurate. and cement identity infennatien pessible
abeut tthit’i'lti'bi er SUSPELTEIJ TERRGRISTE. The 'I‘EC created the T'eiDB te meet these geals.’
The TSDH is alse ltnewn as the 'l'errerist Watchlist. The TSDH receives Ti-:ItFttittl3T
team'trttias t‘rern rwe semecs: HCTC‘s TIDE previcics ini‘ennatien eeneerniag Ithlﬂ‘tlu'hi er
sust-t-zeree internatianai 'I'I-laaettisrs and the TEC‘s Terrerist tteview and Eaaminatiens tJnir
['I‘REit} prevides the identities el‘ sateen er trust-acme demestie Teaaeats'rs whe have ne
Iinit te international 'l'liitﬂﬂlitlﬁlvl. HCTC's TIDE ccntains identifying and substantive
eerteea'rertv tut-'ettatarten en Khit'Jtli'b-l er susrtitrrce internatienal Tiitt aettrst's and the Pitts
Eimtincl system centains supperting ini‘ennatien regarding purely dcmcstic 'I'Haaettisl‘s.

Pursuant 1e Paragraph {1} at" HI-iPlJ-ti. the NCTC is mandated in “provide ['I‘SC] with access
te all apprnpriate ini‘ermatien er intelligence in the [HCTC's] custedy. pnesessiea. er centrnl
that [TEE] requires in pcrfenn its functiens.“ NC'I'E fulﬁlls this I'unctien by previding TECH
TSDE with unseen ini'en-natien abeut tween er sust-sc'rt-Le Teaaeatsrs frem HEtt‘s
TIDE and by previding access In TIDE. Dnline. a read-enly enpy erthe TIDE database. In
these in the watehlisting ccmmunity whe require access-

HCFC‘s establishment by the President was cruciﬁed by seeticn Iﬂll efthc Intelligence
Refenn and Terrerism Preventien r'tet efltttt-il [lIiT'PrtthI Pursuant te IRTPA. HCI'C shall
“serve as the central and shared ltnewlcdge bani: en KNUWH and susreet'I-zu 'l‘EltRﬂTtlﬁTﬁ and
internatienal terrer greaps.” In additien. NET-I3 “may. censistent with applicable law. the
directien ef the President. and guidelines referred In in [the statute]. receive intelligence
pertaining caciusively te demestic ceunterterrerism fren‘t any Federal. State. ar Iecai
gnvernment er ether scarce necessary in Fulﬁll its respereibiiities and retain and disseminate
such intelligence.“

I-'Et.1 All Departments and r'tgencies are required in pravidc HCTC with all 'I'I-Ltttttitttstvt
ttdt't‘iaatnTltiH. Due tn the anteunt el‘ inl‘enviatien invalved. nnly a subset at“ this
inl'ennatien is previded in the HC’I'C prescribed rennet designed te- facilitatc direct
ingestien inte the TIDE- HeMtHa'rnve Interutmravrs and hesitates. hewever. sheuiri
remain Feeused en reviewing and vvatchlisting Taaatnusat lbl FﬂRIvIA'I'ltIIH l'rem datascts
mast litteiy te eentain in Fermarinn aliﬂttl: anewn er susrscnsn Tcaaeatsrs.

 

 

Addendum: B In the ﬁt? “GU. which superseded Addendum It. incerprcates by reference all previsiens el‘the
ltﬂbrmett'en Electing MUM. See Appendix 5.

I The TEDB censnlida‘tcs the ILLS. lFittvcmmertt‘s 'FEﬂHﬂttlsM screening and Inuktitut databases inte t1 single integrated
tteraetttsr identities database.

" Nt'I'l‘tI' initially was created by Executive Drder I331“ {August21 HIM]: In serve as the primary ergnrlieatien in the
ILE. t'ievemment ibr analyzing and integrating III intelligence pessesscd er acquired by the U3. ﬁevcm mcnt
penaining tct Tuattbitlstvl and ceunterterrcriatn. excepting purely dumtﬁlit: mantertcrrerisrn iniennatien. Executive
ﬂrder 13354 was remltetl by Executive ﬂfder I345") [July 313'. 2W3] after HCIC was cediﬁe-d in IRTI’A when "121.
'3 In additien tn the previsicn ei' demcstic ttricr'a'H er stIsHic‘ttiD nmatmts'l‘t-i directly te the TEC. the TEE“: TREE unit
else prevides the ideatiriar nt‘ intemaiinnal anewn er sussecnie 11st seals-rs Ie Nt‘fl‘t: fer incluaien in TIDE.

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR ﬂFFICIAL USE Dbl LWSENSITIVE SECURITY IHFDEMATI'UN

Page | T

