UHELAESIFIEDHFUR UFFIEI M. USE UHLYI’SE NEITH’E SECURITY INFURMATIUN

J. IHCDHELUSWE MATCH: is the ﬁnal determination by TEE that limited information in the subject
data set matches TSDB data in a 'I‘SDB record and no additional identiﬁers are available to
1verify the match.

It. ll'tll'l'lilil. nsrtswt is a quicit primary review ot‘the enctttmrtta FMIKAGH to identity obvious,
new tsttnotttsT toaHt'tI-Itztts about the snot-let or sUsssesnn 'I'Eit nonts'r.

L. Httm'v'tt TEltttﬂltlsTr is an individual whom the LLB. Goyemment ltnows is engaged, has been
engaged, or who intends to engage in 'I'EFl ltﬂFllb‘l-t andt'or 'I'tittttttats‘t' att't‘tttrn', including an
individual {a} who has been, charged, artestml, indicted, or convicted for a crime related to
't‘tttttttttttsht by this. Government or foreign gosemment authorities: or {b} identified as a
terrorist or member of a designated foreign terrorist organization pursuant to statute, Executive
ﬂrder or international legal obligation pursuant to a United Nations Security Council
Resolution.

M. Lotti: won: an individual motivated by one or more extremists ideologies. who operates alone
and supports, or engages in acts of violence' In ﬁrrtherance of that ideology or ideologies that
may involve direction, assistance, or inlluenee from a larger terrorist organization of a foreign
actor.

H. HﬂMtHATﬂtt or nommaruvc tit-:Pa It'rhtitsv't‘ tilt as: anew is a Federal Department or Agency
that has information to indieate that an individual meets the criteria for a tttvﬂttrhl or SUSPEETED
Tttttttﬂt-tIST and nominates that individual to TIDE and the TSDB based on information that
originated with that Departmmt or Agency matter a third Department or Agency.

0. ﬂl'Eﬁh'l'ilﬂNhLL‘i" {.‘AI'ABLE: as described in Chapter II, an individual is "ﬂPi-ERATIﬂ'h-IMJJ'
tjnt'nBLE” iI", based on credible intelligence, he or she, acting individually or in concert with
others, reasonably appears to have the ability. knowledge. opportunity, and intent or is aetivel y
seeking the opportunity to engage in a vigicnt act of'ltitttittJItItth-t consistent with IE U.S.C. 133 l
or 1311.512. 1331b. For example, attemptingtoobtain an lElItI would indicate an individual is
oPItItA'I'ItiNaLL‘r enPMtLtt of committing an act orTIsItItoI-rtsat. However, simply conducting
intemct mearch conceming IEIJs would not be sufficient without additional activity.
Depending on circumstances, and in combination with other facts, scouting potential targets or
traveling for no legitimate purpose to places that have TEttttﬂtttS'r training grounds. regardless of
whether the person is presently capable ol‘using an IED, might also indicate an individual is
GPERA'HDHMJJI' Cat. Pd. ELIE for mmilling an act. of'i‘liﬂﬂﬂRISh-l.

P. ﬂRtGINnTUR: is the Department or ﬁgsntty that has appropriate subject matter interest and
classiﬁcation authority and collects T‘liitRﬂ-RISM IHFEIRMMlﬂt-t (ta. raw intonnationj and
disseminates it or Tli aaoatsr Instv'nrlsrts to other 1.1.3- Government entities in an intelligence
report (in- ﬁ,nishcd intelligence} or other mechanism.

Q. FattTIrttILanIstso osaouamus Irsl'ouma‘l‘lurt: is the type of" information relied on to

determine whether attasonaaur SUE-:E'lClﬂhl is met. This is information that demonstrates the
nature or" an individuai‘s or group's association with ntaanatstvt antitor Ten anats't' ae't'wntns

UHELASSIFIEDHFDR DFFICIAL USE DNLTISENSITIVE SECURITY INF'ﬂHl'tlATIﬂN

I sgpuodd'y

