UHE LASSIFI EDHFUR DFFICIAL USE DHLYISEHSITIVE SECURITY INFDRMATIUH

that is descriptive and specific to an event or activity. and is mere than a label. For esampie.
“Subject Is: prevides false travel documentation for Al—Qaida operatives“ is PAH'fICUIs‘tHIEI-ZI)
Isl-tatJ-tm'rtntv iHl-‘Ult manual, whereas “Subject ‘r" is a supporter," standing alone. is net
considered Pna'rtCttthslsee esetttinrttttv lNl-‘ﬂRMATlﬂi-«I.

l stsueddv

HJEITtin‘. Ma'I'CHt occurs when the THE determines that information about a subject
encountered by a sea Etibtl-ilt exactly or reasonably matches a record in the TEDE.

ro'rtsvrtat. stares: occurs when an esettusteatne nest-«rev believes it has a match with a
KNEW er sttsvlss'n-Ln Tl-thltﬂltlST record in the TSDB- .ﬂtn antunv't't-Ltttrvt} hﬁliHC‘t' may attempt
to resolve rostsM'I'uthtaTeHEs first through its review process. It" an stvcoLthttttttte nestsev*s
review process cannot resolve the individual‘s status as not a match to a 'l'SUH record. the
EHL‘tiltN'l'I-Eltlhiﬁ AGENCY will refer the t'tJTEthtnt. MATCH to TEE for ﬁnal adjudication.

vturst.v treat tesrtC TERRDRISM INFﬂth-MTIDN: is deﬁned in the TSC' MDU as information
about tt.s. Psasttrvs that has been determined to be Put-tear unmns‘rtt.‘ 'rrsttttet-tISl-t IN t‘Cttttttit'rttJN
with “no lint: to foreign intelligence, counterintelligcnee, or international 't'tinttrttttsht.“

aeasertaam: susrtetes: is the standard that must be met in order te include an individual in
the TSEJE, absent an esceptien provided for in the Watchiisting Guidance. To meet the
asnstuvntudt sUsPtCtﬂH standard, the HeattHnTnﬂ, based on the totality ofthe cireu mstenees,
must rely upon articttlable intelligence or infnnnation which, talten together with tatienal
inferences from those facts, reasonably warrants a determination that an individual is known or
suspected to be or has been knowingly engaged in conduct constituting, in preparation for, in aid
of, or related to 'r|-'.tttrt..tttls.ta andfor TERRDRIST nCt'IvtTtHs. There must be an objective factual
basis for the teammates to believe that the individual is a KHﬂWt-t' or so sat-:erae "leaaealst'.
Meat: guesses or hunches are not enough to constitute a menstmaltlh SUSPICIﬂ-t-J that an
individual is a ttttﬂwrl or SUSPECTIED thtt ttttrtts't'. Reporting of suspicious activity alene that
does not meet the anssonaute sttsaleles standard set forth herein is not a sufﬁcient basis to
wutchlist an individual. The facts, hewever, given feireehsideratien, sheuld sensibly lead It) lite
conclusion that an individual is, or has, engaged in ‘t'tjttttﬂtttsst andror Tt-Jttttﬂttts'r nCTWITIEs.

SCREENEH: a Department or r'igeney that is authorised to conduct TEttttttttIstt-I screening to
determine ifan individual is a pessible match to a KNOW er SUSPECTED Thttttttttts't' in the
TSDH, SCH I-ftihtlitttt ean include Federal Departments er Agencies, state. lecal, tribal, territorial,
or foreign governments and certain private entities. The term *tsCttHI-ml Ett‘ is used throughout
this deeumenl as a general reference ha a gnverrtrnent efﬁeial when compares an individual‘s
information with inferrnatien in the 'l‘SDB to determine if an individual is in the Til-DE. Law
enforcement efl'ieiais who engage in such activities may normally describe their targeting or
other actions in this contest as other than "screening." For ease ef reference, gevernn'tent
officials who cemparc an individual‘s inforrnatien with information in the TSDH will be
referred tn in the 1|t'il'tttteillisling Guidance as a “SCI-'tl-ili'lvttlt.“

. suspense TERRﬂRISTt is an individual who is tttsastirl aatv sustaectnn to be, or has been

engaged in conduct constituting, in prepmtiott for. in aid of. er related to ssntromsst settler
’11-:ttttettts‘t'nCTtvtTIEs based on an aniculable and at-znstmitttLe stts PtCIoH.

UHELAESIFIEDHFUR ﬂFFIElAL USE ﬂl'tl LTISEHSITIVE SECURITY IHFDRMATIGN

