UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR DFFIE [AL USE DH LYfSEHSITI‘t’E SECURITV [NFDRMATIDN

it. as so even answers: is t‘uiﬂier exploitation of a targeted set of ewe-olmtea Paceaoee and
aovastettn aHMJESIs products to assist in identifying 11-]th tattt'l' bends and changes to methods.
tactics. and practices. EHCDUHTEtts for 'rnttrittt‘t-Lt} aHaIHSIS are selected using
contemporaneous threat criteria. and research in additional repositories. Contemporaneous
threat criteI-ia include association with a priority termrist group (cg. HIFF Tier 1 or ll};
ENCGLFHTL-‘tta with tttvﬂwtv or susrtee'ltto tttattuttIttt‘s designated as bio Fly or associated with
violent activity; or at the request ofatty Department or Agency that identiﬁes a need.

i atpuoddyt

'1'. 1'Ennnntsat mot-ten museums"! amt'vrt'ttta: is a combination of deﬁnitions because none of
the federal law deﬁnitions of “terrorism" or “terrorist activities" were directly applicable to the
consolidated approach to watchlisting. For tcrrorist watchlisting purposes under this
1titl'atehiisting Guidance, “terrorism andt'cr tenorist activities“ combine elements from various
fedteal deﬁnitions and are considered to: {a} involve violent acts or acts dangerous to human
life. property. or infrastructure that may be a violation of 11-5. law. or may have been. if these
acts were committed in the United States; and. {to} appear intended to intimidate or coerce a
civilian population. influence the policy ofa government by intimidation or coercion. or affect
the conduct of government by mass destruction. assassination. kidnapping. or hostage-takin g.
This includes activities that facilitate or support 'I'I-LI-tttotttertt andfor TERRﬂEtlf-iT aL'tt VlTle-i. such
as providing a safe house. transportation. eem munications. funds. transfer offends or ether
material beneﬁt. false documentation or identiﬁcation. weapons {including chemical. biological.
or radiological weapons}. explosives. or training for the commission ofaet of terrorism endler
TIERRDRFS'I' ACTIVITY.

3. TEﬂlitﬂltltil't't lHFﬂttelaTlﬂttt: applies. where appropriate. to purely domestic terrorism as defined
in the TSC MUU and incorporates the deﬁnition found in in section H] I ti of the. IRTPv‘t {15
LLE-iL‘. 435}. as amended. 'ihe term “'ttiltttﬂrtlt-tet IHI-‘tttttaa'rtuhl" means —

I. all infomtation. whether collected. produced. or distributed by intelligence. law
enforcement. military. homeland security. or other actiyities relating to—

a} the existence. organization. capabilities. plans. intentietttt. vulnerabilities.
means of finance or material support. or activities of foreign or
international terre rist groups or individuals. or of domestic groups or
individuals involved in transnational TERRDRISM;

h} threats posed by such groups or individuals to the United States. LLt‘t.
PEHSDHS. or United States interests. or to those of other nations:

e) communications ofer by such groups or individuals: or

d) groups or individuals reasonabl y believed to be assisting or associated with
such groups or individuals; and

2. includes weapons of mass destruction information.

a} Weapons of Mass Destruction Information: information that could
reesonabl y be expected to assist in the development. proliferatiem er use of
a weapon of mass destruction {including a chemical. biological.

UNCLASSIFIEDHFDR ﬂFFICIAL USE ON L'e'fSENSITI't-FE SEC URIT't" IHFDRMAT’HJH

