UNCLASSIFIEDHIHJR DFFIC] hL USE ﬂHL‘k’t’SEI‘iSITIVE SECURITY INFDRMATIGH

radiological, or nuclear weapon] that could be used by a 'titkkﬂttttt'l' or a
terrorist organization against the United States, including information about
the location ofany stockpile of nuclear materials that could be exploited for
use in such a weapon that could be used by a 11-;ttttoklsT or a terrorist
organization against the United States

i eavusddv

an. rsnaoatstvl scasxntnc txronetavtort: is deﬁned in the standard HEPD-e agreement to
mean unclassiﬁed identifying information about xreown or SUSPELTEIJ 'tTtttttt‘tktsrs.

E“. TERRDHLET: please SEE HHﬂWH 'fliRRﬂRlST ﬂt‘ SUSPE'EI'IEI'J 'fiiHHﬂltlEi'l',

CC. 'rcanoatsr nominees: are referred to in the TEC arotr as UHFDUG data for inclusion
into the T511113. 11taaoatst tosHTtFIens rue data points about a particular identity that include
names and aliases, dates of birth, places of birth, unique identifying numbers, passport
information, country of origin and nationality, physical identiﬁers, addresses, photographs or
renderings of the individual, ﬁngerprints or other biometric data, employment data, license plate
numbers, and any other TERRoItISM ttvlroaa-trt‘tmtv that GttIGIHM‘tJRS specifically provide for
passage to the TEE.

III]. "rattttoats'r [reruns-tartan; as defined in HSPD-ﬁ is “information about individuals known

or appropriately suspected to be or have been engaged in oonduct constituting, in preparation
for, in aid of, er related to rrnaontsat."

EE. L115. PERSDH: is deﬁned in Executive |IIIIrder I233] {as amended} as “a United States eitiaen,
an slim known by the intelligence element concerned to be a permanent resident alien, an
unincorporated association substantially composed of United States citizens or permanent
resident aliens, or a corporation incorporated in the United States, except for a corporation
directed and controlled by a foreign government or governments.“ 'lhe 1iltiatchlisting Guidance
contains eertain exceptions to the minimum substantive derogatory standards for mkkﬂkts'r
watchlisting that support immigration and visa screening activities by the DHS and D05 to
determine whether ineligibilities exist for admission to the United States or visa adjudication
pursuant to the INA. Hecauw the INA deli nes “aliens" as any person not a citizen or national of
the United States, the INA admissibility provisions also apply to LPRs, in certain circumstenees,
who are considered as LLS. Fmsort‘s under Executive ﬂrder [2333. Consequently, HCTC
developed a mechanism in 'l'll'Jl'i to identify and distinguish US. citizens from non-U5. citizens
in order to further distinguish between "aliens“ under the fhiﬁr and the, PEttsotvs under
Executive Urdu-13333. See IHi't § lﬂltaﬂﬂ] [E H.533. llﬂliaJGJ].

UNCLASSIFIEDHFﬂH ﬂFFIEIAL USE {INLTISENSITI 33E SECURITY lNFﬂRMATIﬂH

