Fﬂimﬂﬂﬁlﬂ
Dl'ﬁeeet'Il-reP'r-eu

W 1-5. ace:-

K
I i'
E xipuaddtr

Hemaland Security.r Presidential DireclixeiHepcl-Ei
Subject: Integralich and Use cl Screening Mismatch

Te pretect against terrcrism it re the policy at the United States is it} ceuetep. integrate. and maintain
thereegh. seetrste- and current intern-Italian abcul indhritIuels line-rm er apprepriatelir suspected in be er
have been engaged in conduct constituting. in preparatien ter_ in aicl cl. ct related in terrerisrn {Terrenst
Inlerntatittni. and {2) use that intern-relish as appreprista and tn the hill extent permitted by law is eupperl
13} Federal. State- lcsai. territcriat tnbai. lcreign-geuernnient. sncl private-seem screening precessee.
and {h} dimer-italic military. intelligence. later entcrcernent immigratich. tries. sect prelecl'nre precesses.

This clirectitie shall he bhpilerrien'iad in a manner censistent with the crexisiens cf the certstitutien are:
applicable taxis. inclueirig these pmtecling the rights at all Americans.

Te lunher strengthen the ability pith-e United Etetes Ewe-mitten! In pretest the pecple. prepertti. and
territcrxcllhe Unitas Etstesagairnrtacte cltencrtsrn. she tethehllexientpenhitted by latter-Id
censiatent with the seller set lerth abuse.-

it; The Attemey General shall establish an organisaticn tci mhseildate the anernrnant's appreach ID
ten-prism screeching and prcwrle fer the apprcphete and lewtul use ct Terrerist Inlcninalien in screening
Willi-IE5.

[2} The rinses cl executive departments and agencies shall. tn the extent pencil-tee by law. premue te the
Termrict Threat lnlegraticn Center {ﬁll}: an an engcrng bests ell apprceriate Terr-criet lnlcnnatrcn In their
eeesessien. custudir. cr centrcl. The Alterner General. in cecrcinatien with the Secretary at State. the
Secretary at Hernetencl Security. and the D'nectcr cl Gentrel Intelligence shall implement apprepriele
prueadures and safeguards with respect te all such Intermatich sheet Unite-cl Stance perscns. The TTIB
ltirill prairies the crganisatiee reterancee in paragraph [1] with amass tc ail apprcpriate lnl'ierrnalicn cr
htelligence in the TTIG‘s stein-div. pccsesslcn. er cenbcl that the ergantsallen requires is perferm its
functicns-

lit] The heatlt el‘ executive departments and eger'ictes shall ccncluct screening using such intcn‘natien at
all apprepIiste epeertunities. and shall reperl lathe Attorney General net later than til: stairs from the care
ct this cltrectiiie. as te the eppertunit-es at tit-nth such screening shall and shall net be ecncluctec.

:41 The Secretary cl Hernalancl Security shall detralep guideline-s te gexern the use at such miern'iaticn tc
suppcrt State. lccsl. territcrtat. and tribal screening precesses. and create sectcr screening successes
that have a substantial bearing an hemeiancl security.

{5} The Secretary cl State shall ceuelep a prepesal far my apex'etrsl ler enhancing maceraticn with
certain fereign gexernrnents. beginning with these ccuntries fer which the United: States has waived 1rise
requirements. is establish sppreprtate access to terrcriern screening inlern'ialich at the participating
getternthents.

This eirectitre seas nct alter existing aulhcntles er raspcnsibilltles cfrleparlh-tent ancl agency hearts is

carry cut aseraﬁenal activities er preside ct- recehre Intent-lattes This dhectrire is intended entir tc impress
the internal rnsnegernent cf the enecutiire branch and Is net intended as. and sees net. create any right er

Page l at":

