THE SECRETARY DF ST ATE
THE ATTDRHE‘!‘ GENERAL
THE SECRETARY It'll? HDMELANII SECURE"?
THE DIRECTDR DF CENTRAL INTELLIG EHCE

s struaddv

MEMBRAHHUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ON THE INTEGRATIDH AND USE BF SCREENING IHFDRMATEDH
TD FRﬂTEET AGAINST TERRORISM

[i] This memorandum represents the consensus vietv of the Secretary of State. the tIﬂttIornegrr
General. the Secretary of Homeland Security. and the Director of Central Inteiiigence'tcgarding
the implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directive-Er {HEPDeE}, tint-cs]

September I5. 2093, cnlit'ied “Integration and List: of Screening Info-rotation to Frolcot Agoittal
Terrorism." {U}

{2] Consistent with the President‘s direction, the Parties to this Memorandum: will develop and
maintain. to the eatent permitted lapr lavr, the most thorough. accurate. and current information
possibte about individuals known or appropriately suspected to he or have been involved in
activities constituting, in preparation for. in aid of. or related to terrorism (“Terrorist
Information"). and will. as deterihed in this Memorandum:

{a} use that information to support screening, processes at all appropriate opponunities;

{is} make accessible appropriate infant-nation to State. local. territorial, and tribal authorities to
support their screening processes and otherwise enable them to identiﬁr. or assist in identifying.
such individuals:

to] host rncchanisnttsI to the eatent permitted lap lava, to suppon appropriate private sector
screening processes that have a substantial hearing on homeland security:

{d} host mechanisms. to the extent permitted by iavr. to support appropriate Foreign government
screening processes that have a substantial hearing on homeland security;

is} provide or make accessible appropriate tnt'onnation to foreign governments cooperating with
the United States in the war on terrorists of global reach: and

It} ensure that these aetivltics are carried out in a manner consistent with the Constitution not!
applicable lav-Is- {U}

Page i ol't'il

