provide new or updarcd information. and adjust or relrlct Infco'rnolion as needed. in as near It?
real-time as possible. To this end. the Parties to this Memorandum wilt automate. to the
maximum extent possible while providing for necessary review. their processes and mechanisms
l'or securely sharing this information. including. but not limited to. the Following:

r rtourddv

[a] The Secretary of State. the Attorney General. the Secretary of Homeland Security. and the
Director ol‘Cenltal lntei‘tigencer in coordination with other relevant department and agency
heads. not later than IED days From today, willjointiy recommend to the President tl'iIttt-Igh the
Assistant to the President for Homeland Security. in consultation with the Assistant to lJte
President for National Security Affairs. impruven‘mnts. if any. to the esisting cable-based system
of sharing terrorism-related information with other departments and agencies.

[h] The Anomey General will ensure that the FBI‘s information technology randomisation
programs incorporate automated means of sharing appropriate information with the 'ITl-E and
other dc pan merits and agencies. while providing for necessary review, in near real=time. {Li}

{1:} The THC identities database. and the FEl‘s database containing Purely Domestic Terrorism
Information. will incorporate. to the estcnt permitted by law. available biometric data. inoiuding
data on persons who even il‘othcrwise unidentified are known or appropriately suspected to he or
have been invotvecl in activities constituting. in preparation for. in aid of. or related to terrorism.
The databases will have the capability of periodically incorporating advancements in binmelric
technology. {Ll}

Relationship of the ‘I'l‘lt‘: and FBI ﬂalahases to the Terrorist Screening Center Terrorist
Screening [tatahasc

[13]: The T'l‘lt: identities database will serve. with the csception described in paragraph {lit}. as
the single source for the Terrorist Screening Center terrorist screening database. The Director of
the FBI will serve as the source for the Terrorist Screening Center terrorist screening database
with regard to Purely Domestic Terrorism intorrnation. The Terrorist Screening Center terrorist
screening database will he a continuously updated. sensitive but unclassiﬁed subset ol'the
Terrorist Information possessed by the THC. and the Purely Domestic Terrorism Information
possessed by the FBI. [L11

Terrorist Screening Cc ntcr Terrorist Screening Database
[lit] The Director ol‘ the TTlE. the Director of the Terrorist Screening Center. and the heads of
Federal departments and agencies. or their designees. may nominate persons For inclusion in the

terrorist screening database. with notiﬁcation. as appropriate. to the Director of the TTIC andJ'ot
the Director of the FBI. {U}

Page 4 of3

