Hill The Secretary oi'Hotneland Security. acting through his representative assigned lathe
Terrorist Screening llil'entier. will newiew each nomination and determine whether to include that
person in those records that can be queried by. or made accessible by appropriate means. to other
State, local. territorial. and tribal ofﬁcials tot homeland security purposes. including. but not
limited to. screening persons when they apply for driyer*s licenses or other Forms of
identiﬁcation. {U}

E ttpuaddr

{ill} The Secretary at Homeland SecurityI acting through his representative assigned to the
Terrorist Screening Center, will review each nomination and determine whether to include that
person in those records that 1illtlill be subject to queries submitted by appropriate private sector
critical infrastructure operators or organisers of large events- The Secretary of Homeland
Security. in consultation with the otlter Pattiu to this Memorandum. and working with the
Director of the Terrorist Screening Center. will establish necessary guidelines and criteria to-

[all govern the mechanisms by which private sector entities can submit such queries: and

{b} initiate appropriate law enforcement or other gcyenunental action, il'an y. when a person
submitted for query by a private sector entity is identiﬁed as a preteen in the terrorist screening
database. {Ll}

{I I] The Secretary oiState in coreoltation with the Attemey General, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, and the Director of Central intelligence, acting through their representatives assigned to
the Terrorist Screening Center. will review each nomination and determine whether to include
that person in these records that can be queried by. or made accessible by appropriate means to.
foreign governments cooperating with the United States in the war on terrorists of global reacl'L

iUl
[Paragraphs {1!} - {14] are classiﬁed and ﬂtﬂefore redacted]

{15] The terrorist screening database will be accessible to screening processes on a real—time
basis. Screening princesses will only be able to access these records that have been identiﬁed and
apprnired for such sc reenlng. as described in paragraphs [15} through [24) above. 'Ihe Director
of the Terrorist Screening Center will strictly limit. to the masimtun eatent ytbssibleI the need to
provide 11.3. Gorenunent terrorist screening data in list form to supported entities {U}

additional Implementation Provisions
[215] Per the President's direction. and consistent with guidelines developed by the Anerney
General in coordination with the other Parties to this Memolartdtan. the heads of Federal

departments and agencies will conduct: screening trying the Terrorist Screening Center database
at all appropriate opportunities. and shall rcpor't to the Attorney General not later than ill] days

PagetictS

