from today the screening opportunities at which such screening shall and shall not he conducted.
iUl

E Ilpuatlil'lgf

{23'} The Attorney lGeneral and the Secretaryr of Homeland Seethin-r will eortduet a review of the
Humanitarian. structure and progress of the: Terrorist Screening Center at an. appropriate time. and
report to the President through the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security. The report
wili include a reoommendatiort on tI-Il'retl'rcr any modifications to the Terrorist Screening Center
should he made. [ill

{IS} To the extent permitted by law. the Director ol'the TTlC will promptly assume
rttapﬂnsihility' for the functions and personnel of the Department ot'State‘s TIPDFF _

cote-rterte r‘r'orist program. less those components devoted to providing operational support to
TIFUFF users and will ensure that all terrorist identity intiarrttation contained within [l't-t: TlPﬂFF
database is full}! inmgrated into the 111C database, The ﬁrnelionalitgr ol' the TIPDFF program.
“thereby consular ofﬁeials reeertre near real-time feedback to hits to TIPDFF entries. will he
maintained or improved upon. A serrarriir Ann-err in this Memorandum will be pmmlv homer!
in renarelt'ng the modalities ol'TlPﬂFF relocation to the 'lTlC. am the spoeltte responsibilities eil'
eaeh rainy. till

{29} Beginning with the stand up of the Terrorist Screcning Center. Federal departments and
agencies will discontinue or min to the Terrorist Screening Center. to the errrent permitted by
law and with appropriate consultation with the Congress. those operations that are duplicatitre of

the Terrorist Screening Eertter's mimion to provide continuous operational support to users of
the tarrorist screening database. including but not limited to:

{at these components of the Department or Stern‘s TIPDFF trou ntertet'rorist program devoted to
providing operational support to TfFDFF users (with the exception oi as small element that will

remain at the Department of State to facilitate intelligence support to the Bureau ol‘ Consular
affairs};

[hi the FBl‘s Watehlisl Unit; and
[c] the Transportation Security Agency's lilo-Fl)r and Selectee liat program. {U}

{lit} IEar-Isisterzr with HSPD-d and other presidentiat directives. this Memorandum does not alter
existing authorities or responsibilities of the heads of Federal departments and agencies to carry
out optratiooal activities or provide or receive information. {U1

{3 i] To the eatent that existing notices are not sufﬁcient. the Parties to this Memorandum. which
will prﬂ‘ttid: infom'talion to the 'l'i‘lE'. the F3]. auditor the Terrorist Screening Center under
HSPD-o and this Memorandum. will publish in the Federal Register. prior to the sraodu p of the
Terrorist Something Center. ”routine use" notices under the Privacy Act sufﬁcient to indicate that
such information will he provided. [ll]

Page l of ll

