 

government’s request to access, use, and disseminate the fruits of the prior unauthorized
collection implicates all three elements of Section 1809(a)(2)’s criminal prohibition.

Application of the ﬁrst two elements is straightforward. Plainly, conducting contact
chaining inquiries of stored data and sharing the query results both within and outside NSA
would constitute the intentional use and disclosure of information.80 It is also clear that the data
previously collected by the government — which was acquired through the use of orders issued by
this Court pursuant to FISA — was obtained “under color of law.” ﬁe West V. Atkins, 487 US.
42, 49-50 (1988) (explaining that the misuse of authority possessed by virtue of law is action
“under color of law”).’31

The third element requires lengthier discussion, but, in summary, the Court concludes
that some of the prior bulk PPJTT collection is information that the responsible government
ofﬁcials know or have reason to know was obtained through electronic surveillance not

authorized by one of the statutory provisions referred to in Section l809(a)(2). To begin with,

 

8° Insofar as the government contends that Section 1809(a)(2) reaches only “intentional
violations of the Court’s orders,” or “willful” as opposed to intentional conduct, see
Memorandum of Law at 74 n. 37, the Court disagrees. The plain language of the statute requires
proof that the person in question “intentionally” disclosed or used information “knowing or with
reason to know” the information was obtained in the manner described.

81 The phrase “a person” in Section 1809 is certainly intended to cover government
ofﬁcials. In addition to requiring conduct “under color of law,” the statute provides an
afﬁrmative defense to prosecution for a “law enforcement or investigative ofﬁcer engaged in the
course of his ofﬁcial duties” in connection with electronic surveillance “authorized by and

conducted pursuant to a search warrant or court order of a court of competent jurisdiction.” $99
50 U.S.C. § 1809(b).

412W

101

