 

pertinent part, as “the acquisition by an electronic, mechanical, or other surveillance device of the
contents of any wire communication to or from a person in the United States, without the consent
of any party thereto, if such acquisition occurs in the United States.” 50 U.S.C. § 1801(f)(2).83
For purposes of this deﬁnition of “electronic surveillance,” “contents” is deﬁned in Section

1801 (n) to include, among other things, “any information concerning the identity of the parties”
to a communication “or the existence . . . of that communication.”84 “Wire communication” is

deﬁned as “any communication while it is being carried by a wire, cable, or other like connection

 

82(...continued)
[and] includes any form of ‘pen register’ or ‘touch-tone decoder’ device which is used to acquire,

from the contents of a voice communication, the identities or locations of the parties to the
communication”).

83 Section 1801(f) includes three additional deﬁnitions of “electronic surveillance,” only
one of which appears to have any possible application with regard to the prior bulk PR/TT
collection. Subsections (f)(1) (“the acquisition . . . of any wire or radio communication sent by
or intended to be received by a particular, known United States person who is in the United
States, if the contents are acquired by intentionally targeting that United States person”) and
(f)(3) (“the intentional acquisition . . . of any radio communication”) are ﬂatly inapplicable.
Subsection (f)(4) could apply to the extent the prior collection included non-wire
communications acquired under “circumstances in which a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy and a warrant would be required for law enforcement purposes.” The Court’s analysis
of Section 1809(a)(2) would, of course, apply identically to prior unauthorized collection
constituting “electronic surveillance” under any of the deﬁnitions set forth in Section 1801(f).

84 As noted above, the deﬁnition of “contents” in Section 1801(n) is different than the
deﬁnition of “contents” in 18 U.S.C. § 2510(8) — the latter deﬁnition does not include
information concernin the identity of the parties to or the existence of the communication. See
page 27, supra; Opinion at 6 n6. Accordingly, information constituting “contents”
as used in Section 1801(f) can be acquired through the use of a PR/TT device, provided that it
does not also constitute “contents” under Section 2510(8) and that it otherwise satisﬁes the
statutory requirements for acquisition by PR/TT collection.

MW

103

