 

stage.87 Thus, the Court’s prior orders in this matter are notable not because they permitted the
use of PR/TT-acquired data ~ again, the statute itself generally allows the use and dissemination
of properly—acquired PR/TT information for foreign intelligence purposes — but because they
imposed restrictions on such use to account for the bulk and non-targeted nature of the
collection.88 The Court has never authorized the government to access and use information
collected outside the scope of its prior orders in this matter. Indeed, in the prior instances in
which the Court learned of overcollections, it has carefully monitored the disposition of the
improperly—acquired information to ensure that it was not used or disseminated by the
government. gee pages 11-12, 14, supra.

The government further contends that Rule 10(c) of the Rules of this Court gives the
Court discretion to authorize access to and use of the overcollected information. Memorandum

of Law at 73. The Court disagrees. Rule 10(c) requires the government, upon discovering that

 

37 As discussed above, unlike the provisions for electronic surveillance and physical
search, §_e_§ 50 U.S.C. §§ 1801-1812, 1821-1829, the FISA PR/TT provisions do not require the
application of Court-approved minimization procedures. In the context of Court-authorized
electronic surveillance and physical searches, such procedures govern not only the acquisition of
information, but also its retention and dissemination. E 50 U.S.C. §§ 1801(h), 1821(4). Like
the electronic surveillance and physical search provisions, the FISA PR/TT provisions limit the
use and disclosure of information acquired for law enforcement and other non-foreign
intelligence—related purposes. Compare 50 U.S.C. § 1845 mm 50 U.S.C. § 1806.

8" Contrary to the government’s assertion, the imposition of restrictions on the use and
dissemination of the data collected is not “uni ue” to the bulk PR/TT. Indeed the Court restricts
the government’s use of
— §e_e, gg, Docket No. P TT Primary Order at 4.

WW

 

lll

