  

A]. :zqe‘
' 9

Preliminary Notice of Compliance Incident Dated _ issued on - at 2-3.

The Honorable Reggie B. Walton of this Court ordered the government to verify that access to

 
   

the bulk PIUTT metadata complied with comparable restrictions, noting “the similarity between
the querying practices and requirements employed” in both contexts. SE Docket No. PIUTT-
-Order issued on_ at 1.
In response, the government reported that it had identiﬁed, and discontinued, a non-
automated querying practice for PIUTT metadata that it had concluded was non—compliant with
the required RAS approval process. ﬁe; Docket No. PIUTT -Government’s Response to

the Court’s Order Dated _ ﬁled on _at 2—6 (—

Response”).17 The government’-Response also described additional oversight and

 

17 This practice involved an analyst running a query using as a seed “a U.S.-based e-mail

account” that had been in direct contact with a properly va ' ccount, but had not itself
been properly validated under the RAS approval process. se at 2-3. When
he granted renewed authorization for bulk PIUTT surveillance on , Judge Walton

ordered the government not to resume this ractice without prior Court approval. SQ Docket
No. PIUTT - Primary Order issued _at 10.

In its response, the government also described an automated means of querying, which it '
regarded as consistent with the applicable PIUTT orders. This form of querying involved the
determination that an e-mail address satisﬁed the RAS standard, but for the lack of a connection
to one of the Foreign Powers (gg, there were sufﬁcient indicia that the user of the e-mail address
was involved in terrorist activities, but the user’s afﬁliation with a particular group was
unknown . See Declaration of Lt. Gen. Keith B. Alexander, Director of NSA, at 8 (attached at
Tab 1 to_esponse) ( lexander Decl.”). In the event that such an
e-mail address was in contact with a RAS-approved seed account on an NSA “Alert List,” that e-
mail address would itself be used as a seed for automatic querying, on the theory that the
requisite nexus to one of the Foreign Powers had been established. _I<_i, at 8-9. The government
later reported that it had discontinued this practice, s_ee_ Docket No. PIUTT -NSA 90-Day

(continued...)

W

15

