 

The government’s proposed RAS—approval and querying process differs in two
noteworthy respects from the approach previously approved by the Court. First, unlike RAS
approvals made pursuant to the _ Order and prior orders in this matter,74 RAS
approvals made under the approach now proposed by the government will expire after a speciﬁed
time. A determination by a designated approving ofﬁcial for an identiﬁer reasonably believed to
be used by a United States person would be effective for 180 days, while such a determination
for any other identiﬁer would last for one year. _Alexander Decl. at 27. An
identiﬁer deemed approved based on FISC—authorized electronic surveillance or physical search
will be subject to use as a seed for the duration of the FISC authorization. kl; The adoption of
ﬁxed durations for RAS approvals will require the government at regular intervals to renew its
RAS assessments for identiﬁers that it wishes to continue to use as querying “seeds.” The re-
evaluations that will be required under the proposed approach can be expected to increase the
likelihood that query results are relevant to the counterterrorism purpose of the bulk metadata

collection and to reduce the amount of irrelevant query results (including information regarding

 

74 Previously, approved identiﬁers remained eligible for querying until they were
afﬁrmatively removed from the list of approved “seed” accounts. The government’s practice was
to remove identiﬁers from the list only “[w]hen NSA receive [d] information that suggest[ed] that
a RAS-approved e-mail address [was] no longer associated with one of the Foreign Powers”;
implicitly, the mere passage of time without new information did not obligate the government to

revoke a RAS approval. E Docket No. PR/TT NSA 90—Day Report to the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court ﬁled 0 at 6. The government had informed the
Court on that it was “developing a framework within which to revalidate, and

when appropriate, reverse . . . RAS approvals,” i_d_. at 6, but it does not a ear that the new
framework had been implemented before the expiration of the Court’s h Order on

49W

87

