 

within NSA was the government’s assertion that analysts throughout the agency address
counterterrorism issues as part of their missions and, therefore, have a need for the information.75
Presumably for the same reason, the government proposes in the application now before the
Court that the results of RAS-approved queries be available to all NSA analysts for intelligence
purposes, and that such analysts be allowed to apply “the full range of SIGINT analytical

tradecraft” to the query results. _Alexander Decl. at 28 n. 19.76 The Court is satisﬁed

 

75 In a declaration ﬁled in Docket Number PR/TT-late last year, the Director of
NSA explained that:

NSA’s collective expertise in the[] Foreign Powers resides in more than-
intelligence analysts, who sit, not only in the NSA’s Counterterrorism Analytic

Enterprise, but also in other NSA organizations or product lines. Analysts from other
product lines also address counterterrorism issues speciﬁc to their analytic missions and

expertise. For example, the International Security Issues roduct line ursues forei n
intelli ence information onﬁimiudmgﬁ
*The missiono t e om at1ng Proliferation pro uct 1ne1nc u es

identifying connections between proliferators of weapons of mass destruction and
terrorists, including those associated with the Foreign Powers. The International Crime
and Narcotics product line identiﬁes connections between terrorism and human or nuclear
smuggling or other forms of international crime. . . . Each of the NSA’s ten product lines
has some role in protecting the Homeland from terrorists, including the Foreign Powers.
Because so many analysts touch upon terrorism information, it is impossible to estimate
how many analysts might be served by access to the PR/TT results.

_Report, Exhibit A at 5-6.

76 The—Order did not explicitly authorize NSA analysts to apply the “full
range of SIGINT tools” to PR/TT query results, but, at the same time it placed no limit on the
analytical tools or techniques that could be applied by the trained analysts who were entitled to
have access to query results. Accordingly, the Court views the express reference to “the full
range of analytic tools” in the government’s proposal as a clariﬁcation of prior practice that the
Court, in any event, approves.

W

89

