 

The government’s proposal contains one additional element that was not part of the
framework approved by the Court in the— Order. Speciﬁcally, the government
proposes that “[i]n the extraordinary event that NSA determines that there is a need to
disseminate information identifying a U.S. person that is related to foreign intelligence
information, as deﬁned by 50 U.S.C. § 1801(e), other than counterterrorism information and that
is necessary to understand the foreign intelligence information or assess its importance, the
Government will seek prior approval from the Court.” _ Alexander Decl.. at 28 n.20.
Insofar as the government’s proposal invites the Court to review and pre-approve individual
disseminations of information based upon the Court’s own assessments of foreign intelligence
value, the Court declines the invitation. The judiciary is ill-equipped to make such assessments,

which involve matters on which the courts generally defer to the Executive Branch.78 In the

 

77(...continued)

Order at 12—13. The government’s current proposal also permits such sharin with
Executive Branch personnel “to facilitate their lawful oversight functions.” ﬂ
Alexander Decl. at 29. Although the —order did not contain an ex licit rovision
to this effect, sharing for such purposes was plainly contemplated. SE, 94g”

Order at 16 (providing for NSD review of RAS querying justiﬁcations).

78 See, gg” Holder v. Humanitarian Law Proiect , — U.S. ~-—, 2010 WL 2471055, *22
(June 21, 2010) (“[W]hen it comes to collecting evidence and drawing factual inferences in [the
national security] area, the lack of competence on the part of the courts is marked”) (citation and
internal quotation marks omitted); Reno v. American-Arab Anti—Discrimination Comm., 525
U.S. 471, 491 (1999) (“a court would be ill—equipped to determine [the] authenticity and utterly
unable to assess [the] adequacy” of the executive’s security or foreign policy reasons for treating
certain foreign nationals as a “special threat”); Regan v. Wald, 468 U.S. 222, 243 (1984) (giving
the “traditional deference to executive judgment” in foreign affairs in sustaining President’s
decision to restrict travel to Cuba against a due process challenge).

W

92

