 

DATE/PREPARER: SLS

 

FRAME ID: 7150

 

NEXT FRAME ID: 7170

 

BACK FRAME ID: 7140

 

ALT TAG:

 

 

GRAPHIC/AV:

 

 

(U) The Dataflow Process

(U//FOUO) The goal of dataflow governance is to provide reasonable assurance of
accountability and compliance for NSA mission data as it moves throughout NSA systems

(U//FOUO) Triggers for entering the dataﬂow governance process include (but are not
limited to):

 

Topic Page Classification Screen Number
(U) The Dataﬂow Process W 14 of 20

Adding all

Replacing an existing repository

Inserting a process or system into the ﬂow
Adding a new mission element

Legacy migration

 

GFSH-SWNF) (Technical Character): The Collection Strategies and Requirements Center (CSRC) is responsible for dataflow governance, which provides
reasonable assurance of accountability and compliance for NSA mission data as it moves throughout NSA systems. This is critical to protect the data, and
when we are talking about volumes of US. person data you can understand why this is so important.

'EFSH-Slﬂ-NF)The process begins by submitting a dataflow request (usually done by the system builder or access owner) for a new dataflow solution. Then
some level of research is needed to determine the type of request and associated needs. Once the requirements are determined, a new processing
capability may be developed, or an existing ﬂow may be reconfigured to meet the new requirement. The solution must then be tested and obtain official
sign-off at which time CSRC authorization to operate would be issued.

(Ul/FOUOI Irmeneral. triqugs for entering the dataflow governance process include (but are not limited to):
O

(IFSHSWNF) Formal approval is required for all new and/or different BR and PR/TT data ﬂows. Under no circumstances can a change be made to a data
ﬂow (even for testing purposes) without going through the dataflow governance process.

(U/IFQUO) To ﬁnd out more about the dataﬂow process, please refer to the Dataﬂow webpage by typing ‘go dataﬂow’ in your web browser.

Replacing an existing repository

Inserting a process or system into the flow
Adding a new mission element

Legacy migration (moving an existing unmanaged flow to a managed flow)

 

 

40m
Page 25 of 30

