WH

 

 

DATE/PREPARER: SLS Topic Page Classification Screen Number
(U) Knowledge —'FeP+}EeRE5FHeel\/I-i-N5F#N-9F9RN 15 of 20
Check 3

 

 

FRAME ID: 7170 (U) Knowledge Check 3

7. HSﬁSl-HNF)ThEe compliance certiﬁcation process for new systems is triggered by

a) (U) Entering a ticket intol-

b) (U//FOUO) Contacting NSA Way Team _

c) (UIIFOUO) Entering the new software or system intoi—
d) (U) AII ofthe above —

NEXT FRAME ID: 7180

8. (TS/ISIIIIsIBJMhicbnﬂbeioﬂminan—aﬁon for entering the dataflow governance process?

 

 

BACK FRAME ID: 7150 a)
_ b) (U) Replacing an existing repository
ALT TAG' c) (U) Inserting a process or system into the row

 

d) (U) Modifying a bulk metadata query

GRAPHIC/AV: e) (U) Moving an existing unmanaged row to a managed ﬂow

9. ‘(TSﬂSIﬂNH Before an analytic software upgrade is released on a system that handles BR or PR/TT data,
the developers would need to in order to remain compliant.
a) (U) contact the CSRC and undergo comnlianceiecertiﬂcation
b) (U) register the software release in _ nd undergo compliance recertification
c) (U) obtain OGC approval
d) (U) register your system with ODOC

 

 

(U) (Technical Character): Let’s make a few notes in our travel journal and check to see what you remember from this topic!

 

 

 

— UO) Correct! The compliance certification process for new systems is triggered by entering the new software or system in
ct. The correct answer is c). The compliance certification process for new systems is triggered by entering the new software or system in
Question 8. (U/I‘FQUQ) Correct! Modifying a bulk metadata query is n_ot a reason for entering the dataflow governance process.
(U//FOUO) Incorrect. The correct answer is d). Modifying a bulk metadata query is not a reason for entering the dataflow governance process.

Question 9. (U/ILF-GU-Q) Correct! Before an analvtic software upgrade is released on a system that handles BR or PR/TT data, the developers would need to

 

register the software release in nd undergo compliance recertification in order to remain compliant.
(U#F9U9) Incorrect. The correc efore an anal tic software upgrade is released on a system that handles BR or PR/TT data, the developers
would need to register the software release in dam! undergo compliance recertification in order to remain compliant.

 

 

W
Page 2-! of 30

