“TOW

 

 

 

 

DATE/PREPARER: SLS Topic Page Classification Screen Number
(U) Practice Scenario 1 IQP—SEGRETEGG-IVH-N‘FI‘ENGFB-RN 16 of 20
FRAME ID: 7180 (U) Practice Scenario 1 —
(-‘FSﬂSl-h‘NF) You are one of the —cleared technic ponsible for metadata management
within NSA’s metadata repositories. You are working with otherl _ cleared developers on new query
NEXT FRAME ID: 7190 processes and tools. You —a set of properly marked recor y your team for development

purposes from the PR/TT metadata. This set of PR/TT metadata records is stored on a physically isolated system
within NSA’s secure network and is accessible only to the members of your team. Are your actions in
compliance with the terms ofthe PR/TT Orders?

 

BACK FRAME ID: 7160 (U) Please select the BEST answer:

 

ALT TAG:

a) -(IS#SI+I‘NF) Yes, because the PR/TT Orders explicitly authorize properly trained technical

 

GRAPHIC/AV: personnel to develop and test new technologies to be used with the PR/TT metadata.

b) (TSﬂSIﬂNF) No, because the PR/TT Orders prohibit the use of new query processes against any of
the PR/TT metadata.

c} 1TSﬁ‘Slﬂ-NF) Yes, because me l-‘Kll I metadata records still carrythe unique
markings and software controls on the physically isolated system to restrict access to

those records to IIIIIII-cleared personnel.

cl) (U) None ofthe above are correct.

 

 

 

(U) (Technical Character): Now let’s practice what we have learned using real-life scenarios. Carefully read the scenario and then select the best answer.

 

 

ANSWER:

a)

(TS/ISIIINF) Incorrect. This statement is accurate, but this is not what makes your actions compliant. The correct answer is c). Yes, because the
R/TT metadata records still carry the unique markings and software controls on the physically isolated system to restrict access to
those records to leared personnel.

 

 

 

b) TS/ SI/ NF) ﬁgurrect. The current Court Orders authorize NSA to develop new query processes. The correct answer is c). Yes, because the
HDR/TT metadata records still carry the unique markings and software controls on the physically isolated system to restrict access to
those records to =cieared personnel. _

c) '(TSffSlHNF)—Correct! The best answer is c). Yes, because the-WET metadata_record till carrythe unique markings and
software controls on the physically isolated system to restri J'e records to. iicleared personnel.

d) (ISA‘SIA‘NF) Incorrect. The correct answer is c). Yes, because the —F'F</I_Il metadata-Hams still carry the unique markings and
software controls on the physically isolated system to restrict access to those records to —-cleared personnel.

JOB—SEW

Page 25 of 3|)

