TOP SECRET/ISI/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL

(U) High-ﬁdelity N—qubit Device - An engineered processing device that integrates N coupled,
high-ﬁdelity physical qubits, i.e., qubits with ﬁdelity of operations near or beyond the accuracy
threshold for efﬁcient error correction.

(S//REL) Level A QC - Unclassiﬁed theoretical and/or experimental research in the design,
physical implementation, and operation of quantum computers, as established by the Laboratory
for Physical Sciences/R3.

(S//REL) Level B QC - Classiﬁed theoretical and/or experimental research in the design,
physical implementation, and operation of quantum computers, as established by the Laboratory
for Physical Sciences/R3. The boundaries are based on the number and quality of qubits, realism
and speciﬁcity of design, control precision, and detail of analysis. While these boundaries may
change over time, as of the publication of this guide, the values are:

(l) (S/fREL) Detailed engineering design of 51 or more physical qubits;

(2) (S/fREL) Implementation and operation of a high-ﬁdelity 21-or-more physical-qubit
device; or

(3) (S/fREL) Implementation and operation of three (3) or more logical qubits, with
sufﬁcient speed and precision to allow preservation of quantum information and logical
gates between the qubits.

(U) Logical qubits - Collections of several physical qubits conﬁgured in a circuit allowing
detection and correction both of errors and of loss of quantum coherence.

(U) For the purposes of this guide, the circuit conﬁguration of a logical qubit must allow
detection and correction of at least all errors affecting any single physical qubit. A logical
qubit comprising N physical qubits must also be a high-ﬁdelity N—qubit device.

(U) Physical qubit - A physical entity capable of storing a qubit of information and being
initialized, operated on, and measured. Examples include, but are not limited to: photons,
electrons, atoms, atomic nuclei, and superconducting Josephson junctions.

(S//SI//REL) Practical-Scale - Cryptanalytic-scale, with the added requirement that a roadmap
exists to construct the device with a cost, probability of success, and time-scale of actual
cryptanalytic importance to NSA. A more speciﬁc deﬁnition is likely to change over time.

(U) Quantum coherence - The fundamental quantum-mechanical property of qubits and
collections of qubits which may enable some computations to be performed with resources vastly

smaller than would be required for classical computers.

(U) Quantum Computing - Computing with quantum operations on data stored in a collection
of qubits.

TOP SECRET/ISI/IREL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL

