TOP SECRE'I‘IICOMINTJ'INOFORNII2029I12.3
S3109-080-06

(TS/{SHIN F ) NSA/CSS GA and NSAICSS HI have permanent FISA coordinators who
have been supporting the Counterterrorism analytic mission. CES must work with those persons to
ensure oversight of CES activities. The FISA coordinators will ensure consistent FISA oversight
across all Cryptologic Center activities.

2) (Sf/SI) The creation of a core F ISA workforce which, at all times, contains a stable body of
personnel who ideally have at least one year‘s experience working FISA. A stable, non-transient
workforce ensures a well-founded culture for FISA, as has been established at N SAW over many
years. Such a culture minimizes the number ofFISA-related violations by reinforcing the
requirements. restrictions, and sensitivities of accessing and processing FISA.

(SI/SI) The CES Mission Managers at Texas, Georgia, and Hawaii have FISA
experience and will have supervisory responsibilities over all CES employees at those sites. CES
will ensure that all cryptanalysts at Texas, Georgia, and Hawaii will be trained on how to perform
the CES mission and on how to handle sensitive materials; all will be knowledgeable about USSID
SP0018 and Annex A that describes FISA handling.

3) (Sf/SI) Provide assurances and documentation that the on-siize physical layout of
terminals and the means to secure the F ISA material is such that access is restricted to only
cleared personnel with a need for access to the FISA data.

(SIISI) Seating for individuals performing the cryptanalysis mission will be clustered
together to ensure that they have visual and acoustical privacy for technical conversations and to
ensure that their conversations and the data displayed on their computer screens is neither
accessible nor viewable by those who do not have the appropriate clearances and a “need—to-know".
In addition, these individuals will have one or more dedicated printers and combination safes for
storage of any authorized FISA material.

4) (Sf/SI) Provide assurances that FISA material will not be revealed or disseminated as part
of site briefings or demonstrations, or in any other format, unless it conforms to and is handled in
accordance with FISA Court requirements and minimization procedures approved by the Attorney
General, and NSA. dissemination policies and procedures. Due to the sensitivity of the sources and
methods used to obtain this collection, it cannot be shared with site visitors or other uncleared
personnel without proper minimization and attribution to protect those sources and methods.

OGC requirements:

(S/XSI) Except in exigent circumstances, all personnel that will have access to FISA material should
receive initial OGC USSID SP0018 and FBI FISA minimization brieﬁngs in person. The brieﬁngs
given by 000 are interactive in nature and the personal setting gives OGC a better opportunity to

interact with all participants. When in person brieﬁngs are not possible, brieﬁngs will be done via
VTC.

RECOMMENDATION: (U) SIGIN'I' DIR concur on access with oversighl as described.

SIGINT DIR’S DECISION:

Cancun!éatcz _7 é ”5

Nonconcur: , Date:

Other: Dale: __

I‘OP SECRETIICOMIN'I'YINOFORW2029 l 123

