SECRET//COMINT//NOFORN//ZG310108

(e) Foreign communication means a communication that has at least one connnunicant
outside of the United States. All other conununications, including communications in
which the sender and all intended recipients are reasonably believed to be located in the
United States at the time of acquisition, are domestic connnunications. (S//SI)

(i) Identiﬁcation of a United States person means the name, unique title, address, or other
personal identiﬁer of a United States person in the context of activities conducted by that
person or activities conducted by others that are related to that person. A reference to a
product by brand name, or manufacturer's name or the use of a name in a descriptive
sense, e.g., "Monroe Doctrine," is not an identiﬁcation of a United States person. (S//SI)

(g) Processed or processing means any step necessary to convert a communication into an
intelligible form intended for human inspection. (U)

(h) Publicly-available information means information that a member of the public could
obtain on request, by research in public sources, or by casual observation. (U)

(i) Technical data base means information retained for cryptanalytic, trafﬁc analytic, or
signal exploitation purposes. (S//Sl)

(j) United States person means a United States person as deﬁned in the Act. The following
guidelines apply in determining whether a person whose status is unknown is a United
States person: (U)

(l) A person known to be currently in the United States will be treated as a United States
person unless positively identiﬁed as an alien who has not been admitted for
permanent residence, or unless the nature or circumstances of the person‘s
communications give rise to a reasonable belief that such person is not a United
States person. (U)

(2) A person known to be currently outside the United States, or whose location is
unknown, will not be treated as a United States person unless such person can be
positively identiﬁed as such, or the nature or circumstances of the person’s
communications give rise to a reasonable belief that such person is a United States
person. (U)

(3) A person known to be an alien admitted for permanent residence loses status as a
United States person if the person leaves the United States and is not in compliance
with 8 U.S.C. § 1203 enabling re-entry into the United States. Failure to follow the
statutory procedures provides a reasonable basis to conclude that the alien has
abandoned any intention of maintaining his status as a permanent resident alien. (U)

(4) An unincorporated association whose headquarters or primary office is located
outside the United States is presumed not to be a United States person unless there is
information indicating that a substantial number of its members are citizens of the
United States or aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence. (U)

SECRET/K3OMINT/INOFGRN/IZMZO108
2

