SECRET/K?OMINT/INOFORNHZ0310108

(4) the conmmnication contains information pertaining to a threat of serious harm to life
or property. (S)

Notwithstanding the above, if a domestic communication indicates that a target has entered

the United States, NSA may advise the FBI of that fact. Moreover, technical data regarding
domestic communications may be retained and provided to the FBI and CIA for collection ,
avoidance purposes. (S//SI)

Section 6 — Foreign Communications of or Concerning United States Persons (U)
(21) Retention (U)

Foreign communications of or concerning United States persons collected in the course of an
acquisition authorized under section 702 of the Act may be retained only:

(1) if necessary for the maintenance of technical data bases. Retention for this purpose is
permitted for a period sufﬁcient to allow a thorough exploitation and to permit access
to data that are, or are reasonably believed likely to become, relevant to a current or
ﬁiture foreign intelligence requirement. Sufﬁ cient duration may vary with the nature
of the exploitation.

a. In the context of a cryptanalytic effort, maintenance of technical data bases
requires retention of all communications that are enciphered or reasonably
believed to contain secret meaning, and sufﬁcient duration may consist of any
period of time during which encrypted material is subject to, or of use in,
cryptanalysis.

b. In the case of connnunications that are not enciphercd or otherwise thought to
contain secret meaning, sufﬁcient duration is ﬁve years unless the Signals
Intelligence Director, NSA, determines in writing that retention for a longer
period is required to respond to authorized foreign intelligence or
counterintelligence requirements;

(2) if dissemination of such communications with reference to such United States persons
would be permitted under subsection (b) below; or

(3) if the information is evidence of a crime that has been, is being, or is about to be
committed and is provided to appropriate federal law enforcement authorities. (S//Sl)

(b) Dissemination (U)

A report based on connnunications of or concerning a United States person may be
disseminated in accordance with Section 7 or 8 if the identity of the United States person is
deleted and a generic term or symbol is substituted so that the information cannot reasonably
be connected with an identiﬁable United States person. Otherwise, dissemination of
intelligence reports based on communications of or concerning a United States person may

SECRETHCOMINTHNGFORN/IZOS20108
6

