 

"K: 'W'..‘“’ 2“ \i'lv‘w" :12“?! .{,‘,_.;, ‘4 ‘9’” ’* r" "3'," “J1" '” My"
fir/i, All; We. Clix-”ti “-1: 0- LL, a H R 53“. AL fl \ \cIl'T'w't. if r. 3.3”

. (SJ/Si} Department of Defense Supplemental Procedures Governing
Communications Metadata Analysis

Sec. 1: Pugpose

(S/fSI) These procedures supplement the Procedures found in DOD Regulation
5240.1-R and the Classiﬁed Annex thereto. These procedures govern NSA’S
analysis of data that it has already lawfully collected and do not authorize
collection of additional data. These procedures also clarify that, except as stated
in section 3 below, the Procedures in DOD Regulation 5240.1—R and the Classiﬁed
Annex thereto do not apply to the analysis of communications metadata.

Sec. 2: Definitions

(S//Sl) Communications metadata means the dialing, routing, addressing, or
signaling information associated with a communication, but does not
include information concerning the substance, purport or meaning of the
communication. The two principal subsets of communications metadata are
telephony metadata and electronic communications metadata.

(a) Telephony "metadata" includes the telephone number of the calling
party, the telephone number of the called party, and the date, time, and
duration of the call. It does not include the substance, purport, or
meaning of the communication.

(b) For electronic communications, "metadata"includes the information
appearing on the "to," "from," "cc," and "bcc" lines of a standard
camail or other electronic communication. For e—mail communications,
the "from" line contains the e-mail address of the sender, and the "to,"
"cc," and "bcc" lines contain the e—mail addresses of the recipients.
”Metadata" also means (1) information about the Internet-protocol (1?),
address of the computer from which an e—mail or other electronic
communication was sent and, depending on the circumstances, the IP
address of routers and servers on the Internet that have handled the
communication during transmission; (2) the exchange of an EP address and
e—mail address that occurs when a user logs into a web—based email
service; and (3) for certain logins to web-based e—mail accounts, inbox
metadata that is transmitted to the user upon aCcessing the account.
"Metadata" associated with electronic communications does not include
information from the "subject” or "re" line of an email or information
from the body of an email.

 

