 

SECRET/ICOMINTl/ORCON,NOFORN//X1

12333.' That Order requires the NSA to conduct its signals intelligence activities involving the
collection, retention, or dissemination of information concerning United States persons in
accordance with procedures approved by the Attorney General. Accordingly, changes to these
procedures, such as those proposed here, also require your approval. We conclude that the
proposed Supplemental Procedures are consistent with applicable law and we recommend that
you approve them.2 (SI/SI)

The communications metadata that the NSA wishes to analyzev—which relates to both
telephone calls and electronic communications—~45 dialing, routing, addressing, and signaling
information that does not concern the substance, purport, or meaning of the communication. The
procedures divide communications metadata into two categories: telephony .metadata and
electronic communications metadata. Telephony metadata includes such information as the
telephone numbers of the calling and the called party. Electronic communications metadata
includes such information as the e-mail address and the Internet protocol (IP) address of the
computer of the sender and the recipient. This communications metadata has been obtained by
various methods, including pursuant to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (PISA), 50
USC. § 1801, et seq, and resides in NSA databases.3 NSA plans to analyze this data primarily
using a technique known as “contact chaining.” Contact chaining involves the identiﬁcation of
telephone numbers, e—mail addresses, or IP addresses that a targeted telephone number, IP
address, or email address has contacted or attempted to contact. Through the use of computer
algorithms, NSA creates a chain of contacts linking comrnunicants and identifying additional
telephone numbers, IP addresses, and e—mail addresses of intelligence interest. On the basis of
prior informal advice of the Ofﬁce of Intelligence Policy and Review, NSA’s present practice is
to “stop” when a chain hits a telephone number or address believed to be used by a, United States
person. NSA believes that it is over—identifying numbers and addresses that belong to United
States persons and that modifying its practice to chain throughall telephone numbers and
addresses, including those reasonably believed to be used by a United States person, will yield
valuable foreign intelligence intermation primarily concerning nonaUnited States persons outside

 

I Procedures Governing the Activities of DOD Intelligence Components That Affect
United States Persons (DOD Reg. 5240.1~R)(Dec. l982)(approved by the Attorney General on
Oct. 4, 1982)(“DOD’ Procedures”) and its Classiﬁed Annex. The proposed Supplemental
Procedures would clarify Procedure 5 of the DOD Procedures and its Classiﬁed Annex. (U)

2 This memorandum was prepared in consultation with the Ofﬁce of Legal Counsel. (U)
3 This memorandum assumes that the NSA’s initial acquisition of the information it
wishes to analyze was lawful. (U) '
SECRETl/COMINT/IORCON,NOFORN//X1

-2-

