 

SECRET/lCOMINT//ORCON,NOFORN/IXI

such a request may be forthcoming. As part of its oversight responsibilities, the National
Security Division will be briefed by DOD concerning what these other DOD entities are doing,
or are seeking to do, in this area before approving any such request. (SI/SI)

DISCUSSION: (U)
The Fourth Amendment (U)
The Fourth Amendment provides that:

The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects,
against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants
shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affmnation, and
particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be
seized.

U .S. Const. amend. IV. This provision protects against the unreasonable search and seizure of
the contents of a communication in which a person has a reasonable expectation of privacy. See
Kata v. US, 389 US. 347 (1967). We conclude that a person has no such expectation, however,
in dialing, routing, addressing, or signaling information that does not concern the substance,
purport, or meaning of communications.4 We reach this conclusion with respect to “metadata”

 

4 As an initial matter, we note that the analysis of information legally within the
possession of the Government is likely neither a “search” nor a “seizure” Within the meaning of
the Fourth Amendment. See, eg, Jabara v. Webster, 691 F.2d 272, 277—79 (6th Cir 1982)
(holding that the disclosure of information by an agency that lawfully possessed it to another
agency does not implicate the Fourth Amendment); Memorandum for the Attorney General from
Theodore B. Olson, Assistant Attorney General, Ofﬁce of Legal Counsel, Re: Constitutionality of
Certain National Security Agency Electronic Surveillance Activities Not Covered Under the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978, at 59 (May 24 1984) (“Olson Memorandum”)
(“Traditional Fourth Amendment analysis holds that once evidence is constitutionally seized, its
dissemination or subsequent use raises no additional Fourth Amendment question”). As noted,
we assume for the purpose of this memorandum that the NSA has lawfully acquired the '
information it wishes to analyze. Nevertheless, the Olson Memorandum went on to consider the
limits on the subsequent use of information when assessing the constitutionality of NSA’S
surveillance activities under the Fourth Amendment. See id. In an abundance of caution, then,
we analyze the constitutional issue on the assumption that the Fourth Amendment may apply
even though the Government has already obtained the information lawfully. (S//Sl)

SECRETI/COMINT/IORCON,NOFORN//X1

-4-

