 

SECRE'I‘l/COMINT/IORCON,NOFORN/IXI ‘

Title m (U)

The federal criminal wiretap statute, Title III of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act, 18 11.8.0 § 2510, et seq., prohibits the unauthorized “interceptﬁonl” of any wire,
oral or electronic communication, id. at § 2511(1), which is deﬁned as the acquisition of the
“contents” of the communication, id. at § 2510(4). It also prohibits the use and disclosure of the
“contents” of such a communication if it was unlawfully intercepted. See id. at § 2511(1). For
the purpose of these prohibitions, “contents” is defined as “information concerning the substance,
purport, or meaning of that communication.” Id. § 2510(8); see United States v. New York
Telephone (30., 434 US. 159 (1977) (holding that Title 111 does not cover the acquisition of
metadata with pen registers). By its terms, the Supplemental Procedures’ deﬁnition of the
communications metadata to be analyzed excludes information about the substance, purport, or
meaning of the communication. For this reason at least, the prohibitions of section 2511(1) do
not apply to the proposed communications metadata analysis. (S// SI)

Executive Order 12333 and Related Procedures (U)

Executive Order 12333 requires the NSA to conduct its signals intelligence activities
involving the collection, retention, or dissemination of information concerning United States
persons in accordance with procedures approved by the Attorney General. See id. § 2.3; § 2.4.9
These procedures must permit the collection, retention, and dissemination of certain types of
information including foreign intelligence information in a manner that protects constitutional
and other legal rights and limits the use of the information to lawﬁil government purposes. See
id. § 2.4. The Attorney General approved the current Department of Defense procedures and
Classiﬁed Annex in October 1982. (U)

_ The current DOD procedures and their Classiﬁed Annex may be read to restrict NSA’s
ability to conduct the desired conununications metadata analysis, at least with respect to metadata
associated with United States persons. In particular, this analysis may fall within the procedures’
deﬁnitions of, and thus restrictions on, the “interception” and “selection” of communications.

 

9 In addition, section 2.5 of Executive Order 12333 provides that the “Attorney General
hereby is delegated the power to approve the use for intelligence purposes}, within the United
States or against a United States person abroad, of any technique for which a warrant would be
required if undertaken for law enforcement purposes.” Because individuals have no reasonable
expectation of privacy in the types of metadata at issue here, no warrant would be required to
analyze this information for law enforcement purposes. In addition, the analysis of information
legally within the possession of the government is likely neither a “search” nor a “seizure” within
the meaning of the Fourth Amendment. See note 4, supra. Section 2.5 thus does not require the
Attorney General to approve NSA’s proposed analysis ofcormnunications metadata. (S)

SECRETI/COMIN'IY/ORCON,NOFORN//X1

-8-

