TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108

3. Minimization Procedures
cont ’d
2008-A Exhibit B

g. Section 7 - Foreign
communications of
non-US persons

h. Section 8 — FAA
and collaboration

1. This is not
sharing reports

2. NSA can share
raw data with
Second Party
partners

3. NSA may not
share Domestic
Communications
and ordinarily
minimize data

4. Encrypted
communications
may be shared
unminimized
with limitations

person identity information may be disseminated to
recipients requiring it for the performance of their official
duties if the identity is necessary to understand or assess
foreign intelligence information or otherwise fits within the
criteria outlined in Section 6 (b).

Section 7 — Foreign communications of Non-
US persons

Section 7 states that information from foreign
communications concerning non-United States persons can
be disseminated in accordance with NSA’s normal rules for
handling intercept.

Section 8 — FAA and collaboration with other
governments

Section 8 provides the rules for handling information
collected pursuant to Section 702 of FAA in the context of
collaboration with foreign governments. It is distinct from
the dissemination of reporting to foreign governments,
which is governed by Section 6. NSA can share or
exchange foreign communications with the governments of
Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and New Zealand,
but only with their written assurance that they will use the
communications subject to the limits on retention and
dissemination within the procedures. Domestic
communications may not be shared with them, and
ordinarily, NSA analysts must remove US person identifiers
that are not necessary to understand or assess the foreign
intelligence contained within foreign plain text
communications.

Encrypted communications may also be shared, as may
communications for which the Second Parties’ linguistic or
technical assistance is required. However, there are
significant limitations on what the Second Parties can do
with such unevaluated communications and NSA has
additional responsibilities with regard to ensuring that the
material is handled properly.

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108 ll

