TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108

FAA Certification 2008—B - Counterterrorism

 

 

(Targeting Directed at Foreign Terrorist Groups)

 

 

1. DIRNSA’s Afﬁdavit

The only difference from
2008-A is the TARGET
SET

2. Targeting Procedures
(Exhibit A)

3. Minimization Procedures
(Exhibit B)

4. Target List
(Exhibit F)

The only difference from
2008-A is the TARGET
SET

DIRNSA ’s affidavit

The only difference between this affidavit and the affidavit for
2008-A is that it reﬂects that the certification concerns a different
set of targets. The collection in this case will seek to acquire
foreign intelligence information concerning groups engaged in
international terrorism. Similar to 2008-A, the certiﬁcation for
foreign governments and similar entities, it states that a list of the
terrorist groups that will be targeted is included as “Exhibit F”
(described below). It also states that if NSA wants to target a
foreign terrorist group that is not on this list, it may do so, but it
has to notify the AG and DNI within 5 days of implementing the
targeting.

Targeting Procedures (Exhibit A)

These procedures are the same as those for 2008-A.

Minimization Procedures (Exhibit B)
These procedures are the same as those for 2008-A.

The foreign terrorist groups that are the subject
of Certification 2008-B (Exhibit F)

In 2008-B, the DN1 and AG state that the foreign intelligence
information to be acquired pursuant to the certification concerns
terrorist groups that are foreign powers as defined in a specific
part of FISA. They also state that the groups listed in Exhibit F
ﬁt within this definition. This means that NSA can target
individuals reasonably believed to be non-US persons located
outside the United States to acquire information concerning these
groups. If NSA wants to target an individual who is reasonably
believed to be a non-US person located outside the United States
in order to obtain information concerning a foreign terrorist group
that fits within this deﬁnition, but which is not on the list it may
do so. However, it must notify the AG and DNI within 5 days of
implementing such targeting. The notification must include a
description of the factual basis for NSA’s determination that the
additional foreign terrorist group is a foreign power that fits
within the specified deﬁnition in FISA.

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108 l3

