TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108

FAA Certification 2009—C — WMD/Proliferation

 

 

(Targeting Directed at Persons, Groups and Entities Involved in the Proliferation
of Weapons of Mass Destruction, Advanced Conventional Weapons, Disruptive
Technologies and their Deliver Systems)

 

1. DIRNSA’ s Afﬁdavit

2009-C has no Exhibit F

Instead of identifying
target affiliations, 2009-C
describes activities

1. Proliferating WMD

2. Supply of WMD parts

3. Sales of disruptive
technologies

4. Sales of advanced
conventional
weapons

2. Targeting Procedures
(Exhibit A)

DIRNSA ’s affidavit

DIRNSA’s affidavit for 2009-C is quite different from those for
2008-A and 2008-B. 2008-A and 2008-B contained lists of
specific targets, in an “Exhibit F” attached to the certifications.
2009-C does not contain a similar list. Instead, DIRNSA’s
affidavit describes the entities that can be targeted pursuant to
this certification by giving examples of groups or persons that
possess and/or are likely to communicate information
concerning one or more of the following activities: (1)
proliferating weapons of mass destruction (WMD), to include
nuclear, radiological biological or chemical weapons, their
deliver means, and related materials or technology by state or
non-state actors (2) operating supplier networks used by state
and non-state actors to acquire WMD capabilities, delivery
means or related materials or technology, (3) developing, selling
or purchasing emerging and disruptive technologies that pose a
threat to the United States, its people or its allies, or (4)
developing selling or purchasing advanced conventional
weapons that pose a threat to the United State, its people or its
allies.

The examples that are included in the afﬁdavit are not the only
types of entities that may be targeted, but should be reviewed by
analysts who are interested in conducting targeting pursuant to
this certification. If a potential target falls clearly within one of
the descriptions, it is clearly suitable for tasking. However, the
key determinations are that the potential targets are reasonably
believed to be non-US persons located outside the United States
and that they possess and/or are likely to communicate
information concerning the 4 categories of activities listed
above.

Targeting Procedures (Exhibit A)

These procedures are the same as those for 2008-A.

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108 14

 

