I. Introduction to
FAA section 702

l.

Compel Providers

a. Non—US persons

b. Outside the United
States

C. FAA 702 2 an
exception

2. Court Orders

a. FISA section Fl—F4
did not change

b. Non—US persons &
persons inside the
United States need a
FISC order

c. FISC orders need a
probable cause case.

3. FAA 702 — for:

a. fast targeting and

b. a high volume of
targets

4. The means:

a. AG/DNI
certifications (certs)
approved by FISC

b. Directives to
providers

5. Certs
a. DNI & AG approve

b. At NSA — DIRNSA

approves

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/I20320108

Introduction to FAA section 702

Compel Providers

As described in the brieﬁng accompanying this training, in July 2008,
Congress enacted the “Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978
Amendments Act of 2008” (FAA.) One of the primary purposes in
enacting the FAA was the creation of a new way for the US
Government to compel providers of electronic communications
services to assist the Government in acquiring foreign intelligence
information concerning non-US persons located outside the United
States. This process is described in Section 702 of FAA. Almost all of
the 1978 law remained intact, and Section 702 of FAA is best
understood as an exception to FISA for such targets.

FISC orders for US persons or persons located
inside the United States

The definitions of “electronic surveillance” in FISA were not changed,
so any collection that uses methods that fall within them and is directed
at anyone inside the United States or at US persons abroad still requires
a court order. The Government must give the court probable cause to
believe that each target is a foreign power or agent of a foreign power
before the court will issue an order compelling a communications
service provider to assist with the targeting.

Time sensitive targets and high volume of targets

Under section 702 of FAA, however, the Government may compel the
same type of assistance in a way that is much more time-sensitive and
more suitable for collection directed at a higher volume of targets.

The means used:

The means used by the Government to compel this assistance is in the
form of “certifications” issued jointly by the Attorney General and the
Director of National Intelligence that are approved by the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) and “directives” to the
providers ordering them to assist the government.

Certification details

In a “certification”, the DN1 and AG certify that specific requirements
of the law have been met, and describe how this has been done. When
the collection is being done by NSA, DIRNSA also makes
representations to support the certification. If the court determines that
the statutory requirements for a certification have been met, it issues an
order to this effect, and the collection may begin.

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108 3

