 

I. Introduction to FAA
section 702 cont’d

c. Individual certs
have unique
handling rules.

d. AG/DNI have
issued topical certs

i. 2008—A 2 Foreign
Gov’t (FG)

ii. 2008—B =
Counterterrorism
(CT)

6. Analysts concern:

a. Authorized targets
(Exhibit F)

b. Foreignness
procedures
(Exhibit A)

c. Minimization
procedures
(Exhibit B)

d. Trained to know
when a target fits
the cert

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108

For this reason, NSA personnel who are going to be involved in the
collection, processing or dissemination of data gathered pursuant to
Section 702 of FAA must understand the requirements and
responsibilities associated with a certification to ensure they are acting
in accordance with the representations made to the FISC by the DN1,
AG and DIRNSA. In other words, the various parts of a certification lay
out the rules of the road for collection and handling of data pursuant to
FAA, and this training is designed to assist you in becoming familiar
with their terms. (A certiﬁcation may also contain representations made
by other federal agencies that assist in the collection and/or are
authorized to receive the proceeds of what NSA is collecting pursuant to
FAA. Their terms are only of peripheral interest to most NSA personnel,
so they will not be discussed in great detail.)

Although Section 702 of the FAA provides a framework of requirements
for issuance of a certification, it does not say how that framework must
be used. To date, the AG and DNI have issued certiﬁcations that are
topically based: a certification that authorizes targeting directed at
foreign governments, factions, entities and foreign based political
organizations (Certification 2008-A) and a certification that authorizes
targeting directed at groups engaged in international terrorism or
activities in preparation therefore (Certification 2008-B). Each will be

 

discussed in turn. _ _ _ _
Smce thls Video was recorded 1n December 2008, a FAA

Certiﬁcation 2009-C — WMD/Proliferation certiﬁcation
has been approved. Refer to pg. 14 of this document.

Day to day Analysts’

 

 

 

attention

As described in the brieﬁng, on a day-to-day basis, most analysts will
need to be particularly concerned with:

- the portions of the certifications that describe which
foreign intelligence targets have been authorized for
collection in general terms by the Attorney General
and DNI (typically, “Exhibit F” to a certification),

- the procedures for determining that there is a
reasonable belief that a particular target is a non-US
person located outside the United States (typically
“Exhibit A” to a certification) and

- the minimization procedures that govern handling of
US person (USP) information acquired in the course
of collection directed at non-US persons reasonably
believed to be located outside the US who ﬁt within
the terms of the authorization (typically “Exhibit B”
to a certiﬁcation.)

Thus, at the end of this training, NSA personnel should know how to
ﬁnd out whether a proposed target ﬁts within the terms of a certiﬁcation,

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108 4

