 

II. Cert 2008-A
Foreign Gov’ts

l.

DIRNSA’s

Affidavit

ii.

2008—A Affidavit

Non—US person
Outside of the
United States

Using US
electronic
communications
carriers

Purpose
Foreign
intelligence
Concerning
Foreign Gov’t

Minimize US
person info

CIA/FBI sharing

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108

know where to find the rules for targeting, and know where to ﬁnd the
rules for handling the US person information they acquire. Because the
certifications and the associated rules are subject to change,
understanding where to find NSA’s responsibilities and restrictions is
every bit as important as becoming familiar with the speciﬁcs of their
terms at the current time.

Certification 2008—A: Targeting Directed at
Foreign Governments and Similar Entities

DIRNSA ’s affidavit

DIRNSA’s affidavit to Certiﬁcation 2008-A states the following:

NSA has adopted procedures that are reasonably designed to ensure that

all targeting is directed at non-US persons reasonably believed to be
outside the United States (“Exhibit A”, described below)

This collection will be accomplished by a variety of means at switches
and other parts of the infrastructure of companies that provide electronic
communications services to people abroad from within the United
States.

The collection will seek to acquire foreign intelligence information
concerning foreign governments, factions thereof and similar types of
entities, and also states that a list of the entities that will be targeted is
included as “Exhibit F” (described below.) It also states that if NSA
wants to target a foreign government or other similar entity that is not on
this list, it may do so, but it has to notify the AG and DNI within 5 days
of implementing the targeting.

When NSA personnel come across information concerning US persons,
they will follow minimization procedures attached to the certiﬁcation
(“Exhibit B”, described below)

NSA may disseminate to CIA unevaluated data that comes from
collection pursuant to this certification and that CIA requests in order to
carry out its clandestine espionage and counterintelligence activities
abroad.

NSA may also disseminate to FBI, at FBI’s request, unevaluated data
that comes from collection pursuant to this certification.

