2. Targeting Procedures
(Exhibit A)
2008—A Exhibit A

a. Part I — Location
i. Located outside of
the United States
ii. Totality of
circumstances

1. Lead information

2. Seeking info
“about” a target
— requires filters

3. Presumption of
status based on
location

4. Target possesses
and is likely to
communicate
foreign
intelligence

 

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/I20320108

Targeting Procedures (Exhibit A)

These procedures address one of the central requirements of the FAA:
determination that the targeting is limited to non-United States
persons outside the United States. It does so in four parts.

Part 1 — Location

Part 1 discusses how NSA will make a determination that a person
being targeted is located outside the United States. It notes that the
determination is made in light of the totality of the circumstances.

NSA analysts look at lead information they have received on the
target; they conduct research in NSA databases available reports and
collateral information, and they conduct technical analyses of the
email addresses or other facilities to be targeted. They can use
information from any one or a combination of these categories of
information to determine that the potential target is outside the United
States. Part 1 addresses each of these categories in greater detail,
with examples of how they are applied to targeting of phone numbers
and email addresses.

It also notes that when NSA is seeking to acquire communications
about the target that are not to or from the target, it will employ IP
ﬁlters or similar technology to ensure that the collection is directed at
a party to communications reasonably believed to be outside the
United States.

Part 1 also provides similar guidance on assessment of a potential
target’s status as a non-US person. It notes that information on a
potential target’s location is frequently useful in determining his
status as well. It notes that in the absence of specific information
regarding a potential target’s status, if a person is reasonably believed
to be located outside the United States, he will also be presumed to be
a non-US person, unless/until he can be positively identified as a US
person or the nature or circumstances of his communication give rise
to a reasonable belief to the contrary.

Because one of the things certified by the AG and DNI is that the
purpose of the collection is to gather foreign intelligence, part 1 also
addresses how NSA will assess whether the target possesses and/or is
likely to communicate information of foreign intelligence value
concerning a foreign power or foreign territory. NSA can not target
someone merely because he is located outside the US; there has to be
some reason to believe that the targeting will acquire foreign
intelligence. This requirement, and most of the factors listed in this

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108 6

