2. Targeting Procedures
cont ’d

b.

ii.

C.

d.

i.

ii.

2008-A Exhibit A

Part II —Location
change detection

Detect if a target
enters the United
States

Or if the target is
a US person

Part III — identify the
foreign power

Part IV — Oversight

O&C/OGC

DOJ/ODNI

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108

section are intuitive to NSA analysts, and include information that
indicates the target has communicated with someone associated with
a foreign power or territory, information in public directories that link
a phone number to someone associated with a foreign power or
foreign territory.

Part 2 — Detecting target location or status changes

Part 2 describes steps that will be taken by NSA after targeting has
begun to ensure that it detects when a target has entered the United
States, despite a reasonable belief to the contrary when targeting was
initiated. These steps are designed to prevent NSA from collecting
domestic communications as well as any targeting of persons who are
inside the United States. NSA looks at registers of roaming cell
phones, IP addresses of Internet communications and similar
technical information, but in many cases, it will be the content of a
communication that indicates that a target has entered the United
States. If NSA determines that a target has entered the United States
or that a target thought to be a non-US person is in fact a US person,
it must terminate collection without delay and take additional steps
described in Part 4 below.

Part 3 — Identifying the foreign power

Part 3 states that before collection can begin, analysts must document
one or more citations to the information that led them to believe that a
target was located outside the United States. They must also identify
the foreign power or foreign territory about which they expect to
obtain foreign intelligence so that people conducting oversight of
NSA’s collection can see how the Agency is meeting the
requirements established by the AG and DNI in their certification.

Part 4 — Oversight and reporting

Part 4 describes oversight and compliance responsibilities associated
with collection done pursuant to Certiﬁcation 2008-A. The SID
office of Oversight and Compliance (O&C), together with the OGC,
is required to develop training on the rules associated with FAA
collection. O&C must also ensure that raw trafﬁc from FAA
collection is labeled and stored only in authorized repositories and
accessible only to those who have had such training. O&C is also
required to conduct periodic spot checks to ensure that NSA is
meeting its responsibilities with regard to targeting, dissemination
and other activities associated with FAA collection.

The Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence (ODNI) also conduct independent oversight of
NSA’s activities, with reviews at least once every 60 days.

