TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108

2. Targeting Procedures
cont’d - 2008-A Exhibit A

iii. Reporting incidents
to ODNI CLPO, DO], and
ODNI OJ C for:

1. Intentional
violations

2. Mistakes

3. Minimization
Procedures (Exhibit B)
2008-A Exhibit B

a. Govern info
concerning US
persons obtained
while targeting non-
US persons

b. Definitions

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108

NSA must report to DO], the ODNI Ofﬁce of General Counsel and
the to the ODNI Civil Liberties Protection Ofﬁcer, any incidents of
noncompliance with targeting procedures that result in intentional
targeting of persons reasonably believe to be located in the United
States or the intentional acquisition of domestic communications.
These reports must be made within 5 days of NSA learning of the
incident. Any information acquired by intentionally targeting a US
person or a person nor reasonably believed to be outside the United
States at the time of targeting has to be purged from NSA
databases.

Part 4 also repeats the requirement that if NSA targets someone in
the reasonable belief that he is a non-United States person outside
the United States and later finds out that the target is inside the
United States or is in fact a US person (no matter where he is
located), it must cease the targeting without delay. Any
information gathered prior to determining that the target was a US
person or located inside the United States has to be handled in
accordance with the relevant minimization procedures (Exhibit B,
discussed below.) In addition, NSA must report the incident to
DO], the ODNI Office of General Counsel and the ODNI Civil
Liberties Ofﬁcer within 5 days.

Minimization Procedures (Exhibit B)

The minimization procedures for Certification 2008-A are modeled
on NSA’s Standard Minimization Procedures (Annex A to USSID
18), but contain some signiﬁcant differences. It is important to
keep in mind that they govern the
processing/retention/dissemination of information concerning US
persons that is collected in the course of targeting non-United
States persons reasonably believed to be outside the United States.
Any restrictions on the handling of data that does not concern US
persons come from another source (e. g., concerns about the
potential risk to sources and methods.) All of the requirements in
the procedures will not be repeated verbatim here, but NSA
personnel working with FAA data should review their terms
closely.

The definitions section is the ﬁrst substantive portion of the
procedures and should be reviewed carefully for obvious reasons.
Restrictions on the handling of information concerning “US
persons” can not be properly applied unless one understands what

