 

DATE/PREPARER: SLS Topic Page Classification Screen Number
(U) Interaction Between TGP—SEGREMSIWGEQRN 5 of 8

Analytical and Technical
Personnel

 

 

FRAME ID: 5050
(U) Interaction Between Analytical and Technical Personnel

(U) (Begin with image of analytical and Technical Character sitting at a table, then provide a close up ofthe
Technical Character)

 

NEXT FRAME ID: 5060

(IS#SI#NE) AII interactions must be based on RAS-approved identifiers and those results found within the
number of hops authorized for intelligence analysis purposes

 

BACK FRAME ID: 5040

 

ALT TAG:

 

 

GRAPHIC/AV:
(U) Insert image of HMC Character and
Technical Character sitting at a table

 

 

I I
(TS#SI#N-E) (Technical Character): As we just discussed, analytical and technical personnel have different authorizations to touch this metadata.
Because of these different authorizations, we must be careful when the two types of personnel are interacting with regard to this metadata. Specifically,
outside of the sharing of_identifiers for defeat purposes, technical personnel should only be providing analytical personnel information
under certain conditions.

(TS#SI#NE) (HMC Cha__racter): Sometimes, when analyzing the results of intelligence analysis queries, one or more of the specific results may seem out
of the ordinary. Is it a —identifierthat was overlooked? Is the identifier misnormalized? Is there something thatjust seems out of place? 9r
perhaps there is a particular data field in your results that you dont understand In such instances, intelligence analysts may require assistance from
certain technical personnel responsible for data integrity functions.

(TS#SI#NF) (Technical Character): In these instances, technical personnel may assist authorized intelligence analysts, but any and all assistance must
be based on RAS-approved identifiers and those results found within the number of hops authorized for intelligence analysis purposes. Essentially,
when providing information to analytical personnel in these circumstances, the technical personnel must abide by the rules forthe analytical personnel.

(TS#SI#N-E) (Technical Character): In the end, all personnel have a vested interest and shared responsibility in ensuring that only the most accurate
intelligence information is reported to customers, while abiding by the policies and requirements in place for this metadata.

 

 

JEGP—SEGRE—TALS-ENGFGRN
Page of 10

