 

DATE/PREPARER: SLS

 

FRAME ID: 5070

 

NEXT FRAME ID: 5080

 

BACK FRAME ID: 5060

 

ALT TAG:

 

GRAPHIC/AV:

 

Topic
(U) Knowledge
Check

(U) Knowledge Check
4. (ISﬂ/SWNF)

the analysts to use.
a)

Page Classification Screen Number
IOP—SECREIAISWNQFORN 7 of 8

staff have access to the bulk metadata in order to prepare the metadata for

 

b) Mission Capabilities (TD)

c) Analytical

d) foice of General Counsel (GGC)

5. (IS#SI#NF) If an intelligence analyst seeks assistance from technical personnel, technical personnel

a) can query the metadata to confirm the analyst's results and point out potentially noteworthy
contacts at the third or fourth hop _
b) should explain that they are unable to assist in any way, except to identify"—

identifiers

c) may offer assistance, but must be cautious that any results shared or discussed are
based on a RAS-approved identifiers and those results that fall within the number of hops
authorized for intelligence analysis purposes

d) should provide whatever assistance is needed, but make a note of it in case anyone in
management has questions later

e) should decline to assist because technical personnel should not assist intelligence analysts

 

(No audio or transcript on this page)

 

 

Question 4. (ISALSWNF) Correct! Mission Capabilities staff has access to the bulk metadata in order to prepare the metadata forthe analysts to use.
(ISI/SWNF) Incorrect. The correct answer is b). Mission Capabilities staff has access to the bulk metadata in order to prepare the metadata forthe analysts

to use.

Question 5. (ISL/SIM) Correct! If an intelligence analyst seeks assistance from technical personnel, technical personnel may offer assistance, but
must be cautious that any results shared or discussed are based on RAS-approved identifiers and those results that fall within the number of hops

authorized for intelligence analysis purposes.

(ISI/SWNF) Incorrect. The correct answer is c). If an intelligence analyst seeks assistance from technical personnel, technical personnel may offer
assistance, but must be cautious that any results shared or discussed are based on RAS-approved identifiers and those results that fall within the
number of hops authorized for intelligence analysis purposes.

 

¥£HLSE£H¥E4%§H#¥R9F€H€¥
Page of 10

 

