TOP SECRETHSI'HNOFORN

National Security Agencleentral 19 April 2013
Security Service

Information Paper

 

(TSIIREL TO USA, ISR) Subject: NSA Intelligence Relationship with Israel

(U) Introduction

(TSHN F) NSA maintains a far-reaching technical and analytic relationship with the
Israeli SIGINT National Unit (ISNU) sharing information on access, intercept, targeting,
language, analysis and reporting. This SIGINT relationship has increasingly been the
catalyst for a broader intelligence relationship between the United States and Israel.
Signiﬁcant changes in the way NSA and ISNU have traditionally approached SIGINT
have prompted an expansion to include other Israeli and U .8. intelligence organizations
such as CIA, Mossad, and Special Operation Division (SOD).

(U) Key Issues

(TSHSIHN F) The single largest exchange between NSA and ISN U is on targets in the
Middle East which constitute strategic threats to U.S. and Israeli interests. Building
upon a robust analytic exchange, NSA and ISNU also have explored and executed
unique opportunities to gain access to high priority targets. The mutually agreed upon
geographic targets include the countries of North Africa, the Middle East, the Persian
Gulf, South Asia, and the Islamic republics of the former Soviet Union. Within that set of
countries, cooperation covers the exploitation of internal governmental, military, civil,
and diplomatic communications; and external security/intelligence organizations.
Regional Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and "Stateless"!|nternational
Terrorism comprise the exchanged transnational target set. A dedicated
communications line between NSA and ISN U supports the exchange of raw material, as
well as daily analytic and technical correspondence. Both NSA and ISNU have liaison
officers, who conduct foreign relations functions, stationed at their respective
embassies.

(TSIIREL TO USA, ISR) What NSA Provides to ISNU

(TSIISIHREL TO USA, ISR) The Israeli side enjoys the benefits of expanded geographic
access to world-class NSA cryptanalytic and SIGINT engineering expertise, and also
gains controlled access to advanced U .8. technology and equipment via
accommodation buys and foreign military sales.

(TSIIREL TO USA, ISR) What ISNU Provides to NSA

(TSHSWREL TO USA, ISR) Benefits to the US. include expanded geographic access to
high priority SIGINT targets, access to world-class Israeli cryptanalytic and SIGINT
engineering expertise, and access to a large pool of highly qualified analysts.

Derived From: NSAICSSM 1-52
Dated: 20070108
Declassify On: 20371101
TOP SECRETHSWN OFO RN

