TOP SECRET/ISWN OFO RN

(U) Success Stories __

(TSIISIl/REL TO USA, ISR) A key priority for ISN U is the Iranian nuclear development
program, followed by Syrian nuclear efforts, Lebanese Hizballah plans and intentions,
Palestinian terrorism, and Global Jihad. Several recent and successful joint operations
between NSA and ISNU have broadened both organizations' ability to target and exploit
Iranian nuclear efforts. In addition, a robust and dynamic cryptanalytic relationship has
enabled breakthroughs on high priority Iranian targets.

(TS/IREL TO USA, ISR) NSA and ISNU continue to initiate joint targeting of Syrian and
Iranian leadership and nuclear development programs with CIA, ISNU, SOD and
Mossad. This exchange has been particularly important as unrest in Syria continues,
and both sides work together to identify threats to regional stability. NSA’s cyber
partnerships expanded beyond ISNU to include Israeli Defense Intelligence's SOD and
Mossad, resulting in unprecedented access and collection breakthroughs that all sides
acknowledge would not have been possible to achieve without the others.

(TS/ISIIIN F) In July 2012, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODN I)
provided guidance for expanded sharing with the GOI (Government of Israel) on Egypt.
This approval has allowed NSA to task for ISN U on select strategic issues, specifically
terrorist elements in the Sinai.

(SI/N F) Beyond the traditional SIGINT relationship, NSA and ISNU signed a MOU in
September 2011 providing for Information Assurance/Com puter Network Defense
collaboration. NSA's Information Assurance Deputy Director attended an IA/CND
conference in Tel Aviv in January 2012 during which N SA and ISN U established
objectives for the relationship. NSA intends to focus the collaboration on cyber threats
from Iran, Hizballah and other regional actors and may provide limited, focused support
on specific Russian and Chinese cyber threats. Conferences to further develop this
partnership were held in May 2012 and December 2012.

(TS/ISIIIREL TO USA, ISR) NSA and ISNU led their communities in the establishment
of US. - Israeli Intelligence Community VTC connectivity that allows both sides to
broaden and accelerate the pace of collaboration against targets” use of advanced
telecommunications. Target sets include, but are not limited to Iran Nuclear, Syrian
Foreign Fighter movements, Lebanese Hizballah and Iranian Revolutionary Guard
Corps activities. Dialogue is ongoing, with each potential new intelligence or technology
initiative considered for approval individually.

(U) ProblemsIChallenges

(TS/IN F) The three most common concerns raised by ISNU regarding the partnership
with NSA is NSA's reluctance to share on technology that is not directly related to a
specific target, ISN U's perceived reduction in the amount and degree of cooperation in
certain areas, and the length of time NSA takes to decide on ISN U proposals. Efforts in
these three areas have been addressed with the partner and NSA continues to work to

TOP SECRETl/SWNOFORN 2

