TOP SECRET//COMINT//20291123

(TS//SI) For this scenario, we are most interested in tracing a request back to the
client, assuming that we see an exit node connect to something we deem interesting. The
worst (and most likely) case is that we will not own any of the servers along the way.
There are two types of potential correlation attacks, although both are complex.

(S / / SI) First method: circuit tracing This method requires data on all of the
connections for each server in the attacked circuit. While currently unrealistic in general,
this is a potentially powerful attack. A small, private Tor network, for example, could
possibly be completely compromised by this technique.

(U//FOUO) We also need to have a good idea of how long it takes to send data
across the network to another machine. This comes with the usual caveats that network
congestion, distance between links, and packet size affect transmission time. Although in
theory Tor packets are all the same size owing to the ﬁxed cell size, in practice we see
different packet sizes, as two or more cells sometimes get sent in the same packet. Despite
this, we should have a good idea of the network latency. Actual processing time devoted
to the cells is minimal, and can be ignored.

(S//SI) We begin by focusing on an exit node making a connection to material of
interest. At this point, we must keep track of all of the connections that node has up.
When the exit node receives data, it will send it back down the circuit that requested
it. Thus data comes in to the exit node, and then the node will send out data over the
appropriate connection.

(S / / SI) Unfortunately, the exit node will almost certainly be sending data out over
several connections. We must keep track of all of them. Let the network latency be 1:
seconds. When we see data get sent to the exit node, we only need to pay attention to
the outgoing connections that send out data roughly 1: seconds later. We must take into
account some error in our timing, to allow for differences in latency owing to differences
in network conditions. We then make a list of all of the nodes in the Tor cloud that the
exit server sends data to. These are all potential second nodes.

(S//SI) The above process must be recursively performed on the list of potential
second nodes. Hopefully this number of nodes will not be prohibitive, but we have no
hard data about how many nodes a given machine in the Tor cloud is simultaneously
connected and actively sending data to. Again, we will use the timing to determine which
connections are of interest. This is made slightly easier by the fact that no node will appear
twice in a circuit, meaning that we can ignore any outgoing connections from our possible
second nodes to our exit server. We can also ignore any connections made to machines
outside of the Tor cloud (i.e. clients) because the second server should only be talking to
other Tor servers. Now we have an even larger list of nodes to look at, and these are our
possible entry servers.

(S / / SI) Finally, we look at the outgoing connections from the entry servers that are
sending out information roughly 1: seconds after the possible second nodes. This is made
easier by the fact that we are really only interested in connections into the Tor cloud from
outside of the Tor cloud, so we can ignore any connections made to other Tor servers. So

13

TOP SECRET//COMINT//20291123

