TOP SECRET//COMINT//20291123

— Notes: See the documentation for the coil attack.

Warning: This call is blocking. It will halt program execution until a circuit
has been successfully extended.

F (U//FOUO) MJOLNIR for Windows

F. 1 (U) Interface

(TS/ / SI) The GUI provides the user with a list of all the circuits created by the client.
The list displays relevant information about each circuit, including its length, state, and
purpose. Additionally, each circuit has an light icon next to its name. The light is red if
the circuit is closed (cannot be used). The light is green if the circuit is open and ready
for use. Beneath the circuit list, a list of the servers in a circuit is displayed for the last
circuit clicked. Similar to the circuits, the servers each have a light next to their names to
indicate whether the circuit is open up to that server. The displays for the circuit list and
the node list are set to update on a timer (currently set to three seconds.) On the right,
the GUI provides a list of servers that are available for use in a circuit. The router list
does not update on the timer. To update the router list, the user must click the “Load
Routers” button.

F.2 (S / / SI) Creating new circuits

(TS / / SI) The GUI provides a few different ways to create new circuits. The most general
way to create a new circuit is to click the “New Circuit” button. This will create a
null circuit with a user—speciﬁed name and purpose (see the Tor documentation for more
information on circuit purpose.) The user can then proceed to build a circuit by appending
servers individually to the end of the circuit. Alternatively, the user can create a random
circuit of arbitrary length by clicking the “New Random Circuit” button. The user then
speciﬁes a name and length n, and MJOLNIR will choose n random servers from the
available router list and create a new circuit. Currently, all random circuits are made with
“General” purpose. Modifying the program so that the user can specify the purpose of a
random circuit only requires a minor change at the library level. However, it is likely that
creating circuits of certain purposes will cause the program to crash (see below.) Circuits
can also be created using the coil or ﬂower attacks (see section 7.1, DOS-Style Attacks.)
(TS / / SI) To append a server to a circuit, the user must ﬁrst select the desired circuit
by clicking on its name in the circuit list. This causes the chosen circuit to become current,
which means it is the circuit whose node list is currently displayed. Then the user right—
clicks on the name of the desired server in the router list and selects “Append to Current
Circuit.” Any “General” purpose circuit that is open can have a server appended to it.
(TS / / SI) It should be noted that circuits created with certain purposes cannot have
servers appended to them, and trying to do so will crash the program. Currently, only
“General”, “Introducing”, and “Establish Rend” circuits are able to have servers appended

46

TOP SECRET//COMINT//20291123

