TOPSECRETSTRAPI
An experiment was carried out to make use of results from this technique for target discovery.

Statistics produced alongside IMSUKi results include email addresses appearing in
communications alongside this content. These email addresses are scored by the number of
times they are seen. It was proposed that analysis of these addresses should bring to light
common communication patterns between operators, as well as help identify actors most
involved in the sharing of Ki data.

UDAQ C26 collection is targeted; hence any traffic found will originate from an identifier in
GCHQ’s corporate systems. However it was surmised that additional useful contact addresses
could be found associated with trafﬁc.

All email addresses associated with traffic in each of the 6 periods were compiled together.
This resulted in a list of 154 unique email addresses, each associated with a score. From this it
was possible to identify a number of candidate targets for further research that scored highly:

I m ~ target’s email handle suggests an Ericsson employee

using a webmail account

I -@huawei.com ~ this was the highest scoring overall address, a previously
unknown target on the Huawei network.

I M ~ highest scoring webmail address, indicating lots of activity
associated with IMSIs and Kis, was a previously unknown target.

I mtn ics.mc ~ a number of users associated with this previously unknown domain.
JEDI research shows international gateway for South African provider MTN

I m ~ an MSN address found to be associated with [M515 and Kis

This has demonstrated a number of opportunities to apply this harvesting technique to target
discovery efforts.

3.3 Measuring Targeting Effectiveness

An experiment was carried out to discover the effectiveness of TDSD’s current targeting
methods.

Email addresses identified in the previous section were converted into a list of domains, again
scored by the number of associations with IMSUKi data. The complete list can be seen in
Appendix 5.

It was then possible to group domains into 5 categories:

I Hardware Companies ~ Organisations such as Huawei, Ericsson, who manufacture
PCS hardware.

I Network Operators ~ Operators of mobile networks such as MTN Irancell,
Belgacom.

I SIM Suppliers ~ SLM Suppliers or SIM Personalisation centres, for example Bluefish.

I Mail Providers ~ Users of general email providers (Gmail, Yahoo etc). These may be
in use by employees of any of the above.

12 of 24

This iiilﬂrirmLiOn is exeuipL from disclosure under llie 1"1'L'L't10111 of lulerrrmLion Act 2000 and may be subject to exeuipLiou under oLher UK

inlerrriutiori legislation. Refer disclosure requesLs to (SCI-[Q 011 — (lion—sec] or email —

TOPSECRETSTRAPI

