TOPSECRETSTRAPI

3.4.2 Overall harvesting efforts

TDSD and OPC-CAP collect overall stats for Kis harvested from networks of interest
(reference 5). Overall rates of Kis received over a 3-month period, January ~ March 2010,
were compared against those from the automated technique. Figure 4 shows this comparison
for a range of networks.

 

New Kis ide ntified

10,000,000

 

1.000.000 —
100.000 ~

10.000 - D3 rmnlh total

1,000 . DAuton'ated collectlon

100 —
10 —

 

 

1

 

MTN. Yemen :I
:I
_:I
:I
Ideacl. Indra :I

Irancell. Iran *
Mobtel. Serbia
Nova. Iceland
Teles. Somalia

Sabafn, Yemen
Babilon, Tajikstan :

Mobilink, Pakistan *
Telenor. Paklstan *

AWCC. Afghanistan *
Roshan. Afghanistan *

 

 

 

Figure 4 - comparing data from the trial to historical data
(priority targets marked *)

The overall data set contains values gained from a range of sources including Ki generation
techniques and information sharing with partners.

It can be seen that for the first three providers; AWCC, Irancell and Roshan; the number of
keys collected by automated harvesting is comparatively small. Many of the larger batches of
Kis received in this period were provided by partners on request, and it is difficult to estimate
the real time period they were collected over. Additionally, the value of a small number of Kis
should not be underestimated as these can often be used as seeds to generate much larger
batches.

It is clear that the automated technique is able to identify Kis for a greater range of networks,
successfully identifying a large batch of Kis for a particular Somali provider.

This comparison did bring to light a number of networks where the (32C harvesting method is
not bringing results, notably the Pakistani networks Mobilink and Telenor for whom we do
have a store of Kis. There could be a number of explanations: it is possible that these

15 of 24

'l'his infomraLion is exerupL from disclosure under llre Freedom of infomraLion Act 2000 and may be subjeCL lo exerupLiou under ollrer UK
information legislulion. Refer disclosure requesLs lo GCHQ on — (non—sec) or email —

TOPSECRETSTRAPI

