TOPSECRETSTRAPI

4 Conclusions

This work has demonstrated that an automated method of Ki recovery, once in place, can
deliver significant results with little manual effort compared to current harvesting methods. In
addition to Ki harvesting a number of further applications have been demonstrated: the
monitoring of mobile network activity, where views have been provided over a 3—month
period; discovery of new target identiﬁers associated with detected traffic; and methods of
measuring the effectiveness of current techniques.

A picture of types of organisations associated with Ki traffic has been constructed providing a
new view of mobile network operations to TDSD.

It has also been shown that although the automated method is able to return a representative
set of items from bulk data, it often fails to detect all items that would be found manually.
More work is required at the initial bulk query stage and also with detection techniques to
ensure accurate and full coverage of Ki data.

Whilst problems have been identified such as limits on coverage due to access restrictions,
this work makes a strong case that such harvesting efforts will continue to deliver results in
TDSD and areas such as the CP SD team.

It is the author’s view that increased levels of corporate support for such bulk data processing
activities would allow TDSD, as well as many other business areas, to benefit from more
applications of these techniques.

4.1 Future Work

A number of items of follow-up work have been identified:

I Improving initial query effectiveness
It has been shown that the initial base ‘proximity’ query is not effective enough to
return all results currently found using manual harvesting. Work should be carried
out to identify more effective queries to process data on. An alternative option is to
run the technique repeatedly against a number of result sets.

I Improved detection techniques
Detection techniques are unable to identify Ki and [MSI data where the fields of
interest appear on separate lines (see section 3.4.2). An improved technique would
ensure these results are also detected and included.

I Improved summary information
Summary information currently consists of a list of email addresses, UDAQ item
identiﬁers and network codes associated with simple scores. Analysts would like to
be able to find the UDAQ item associated with a particular IMSI or email address
more easily. An improved scoring system would also help analysts more accurately

17 of 24

This iiiformuLioIi is exeliipL from disclosure under Llre Freedom of liiformuLioIi Act 2000 and may be subjeCL lo exeliipLiou under oLlier UK

information legislation. Refer disclosure requesLs lo GCHQ on — (non-sec) or email —

TOPSECRETSTRAPI

