TOPSECRETSTRAPI

1 Introduction

TDSD’s key harvesting methodology centres around collecting Ki values in transit between
mobile network operators and SIM card personalisation centres. Provisioning information is
often sent between these organisations by email or FTP with simple encrylption methods that
can be broken out by UPC-CAP, or occasionally with no encryption at all . With targeting in
place, a large volume of IMSI and associated Ki values can be harvested from UDAQ ~
GCHQ’s corporate C2C data repository.

With known individuals and operators targeted, items of interest can often be returned from
bulk (32C data using a simple search for the terms ‘Ki’ and ‘IMSI’ in close proximity. Results
will often contain a large number of unrelated items, however an analyst with good
knowledge of the operators involved can perform this trawl regularly and spot the transfer of
large batches of Kis.

Work has already been carried out to automate this sifting of bulk data; reference 1 describes
techniques successfully trialled so far. This work builds upon these techniques introducing a
system to bulk query UDAQ itself, perform the sifting operation on data to identify items of
interest, packaging these up in a form that can usefully be interpreted by researchers in OPC-
CAP. Summary information is also produced for the use of analysts in TDSD.

The main desired outcomes from this work are to:

I Improve TDSD’s effectiveness at finding Kis in C2C content repositories. By
automating the approach it should be possible to perform a more thorough search than
TDSD has had the manpower to do at present. This is likely to bring higher volumes
of Kis and IMSIs to light in addition to spotting interesting items that would not have
come to the attention of analysts previously.

I Improve TDSD’s target knowledge. A more complete picture of lMSLr’Ki data in (32C
repositories will allow TDSD to view the effectiveness of current targeting, spot
trends as target behaviour changes and also spot any obvious gaps in coverage ~ for
example providers for whom this type of harvesting is ineffective.

I Develop and enhance TDSD’s harvesting methodology. This methodology is based
around knowledge of how network operators, SLM suppliers and hardware providers
co-operate to share cryptographic data. By looking at the types of organisations
associated with traffic seen in the wild we can test assumptions about communication
patterns we expect to take place, improving our knowledge of relationships between
these companies.

 

1 It should also be noted that TDSD have observed the use of strong encryption products being used
(eg. PGP products). These have become increasingly common and used as standard for large SIM
suppliersfpersonalisation centres to exchange SIM output and input data with mobile network
operators.

4of24

This infommLiOn is exempl from disclosure under Lhe Freedom of luformaLion Act 2000 and may be subjeCL to exempLiou under OIJler UK
information legislulion. ltefer disclosure requesLs to GCHQ on — (non—sec) or email —

TOPSECRETSTRAPI

