TOPSECRETSTRAPI

I Transfers all required files onto the LLANDARCYPARK server, including
pulludaqsh

pulludaqsh is then executed on LLANDARCYPARK. This:

I Executes the bulk ILB query [can take 5-10 mins)
I Retrieves query results as compressed CCDF ﬁles
I Unpacks the CCDF contents into a directory as plain text for processing.

The next stage is to identify content of interest in the processed ﬁles.

2.1.2 Identifying Content

Once plain text is retrieved from ILB this is parsed to identify items containing M51 and Ki
values. A previously proven rule based approach is used to identify content of interest.

The routine scrapes the plain text identifying lines containing IMSI and Ki values, which may
appear in intercept in any conceivable format. The technique also attempts to identify header
information describing the contents, as well as associating results with a UDAQ identifier that
can be later researched. Further technical discussion on this technique is available in reference
1, TDSD Technical Note 11: What Makes a Good PCS Key Harvester?.

A final stage generates statistics and additional information linked to the results, developed in
consultation with TDSD analysts. This includes:

I A list of unique UDAQ item identiﬁers resulting in valid Ki 1 IMSI data. This allows
analysts to conduct further research into these traffic sources. These are ranked
according to the number of sections of MSI data seen in each UDAQ item.

I A list of network and country codes identiﬁed. These are derived from the first 6
characters of an IMSI and used to provide an overview of countries and networks
identiﬁed.

I A list of associated email addresses. This is generated by scraping all email addresses
from results found to contain valid Ki data. These are then ranked by the number of
occurrences of each address.

Care should be taken when interpreting ranking positions. In the case of email addresses a
higher score does not necessarily indicate association with more Kis, however they can
provide an indication of how active an address is.

An example set of statistics produced is shown in Appendix 2.

2.1.3 Processing f storing

Output files generated by the previous step typically take the form shown in Appendix 3 ~
section markers separate the UDAQ item reference, potential header information and IMSUKi
content. This format was developed alongside UPC-CAP. It should be noted that although the
content will contain IMSI and Ki data it could take any conceivable form ~ it is presented as
found in raw intercept. It is the task of OPC-CAP to interpret any additional data in any
recognised header section, decoding as necessary. Ki values may still be encrypted at this
stage.

Bof24

'l'his illlﬂl‘lllilLiClii is exeiupL from disclosure under llie Freedom of lulonimLioii Act 2000 amd may be subjecL lo exeiupLiou under oLher UK

information legislation. Refer disclosure requesLs lo GCHQ 011 — (non-sec] or email —

TOPSECRETSTRAPI

