TOPSECRETSTRAPI

OPC-CAP have developed and successfully trialled techniques to speed up the task of
importing these scripts, indentifying expected column header names and mapping these to
data fields, and even automating the final decryption stage.

Once properly interpreted these Ki values can be stored, encrypted or clear, in relevant
databases and shared with partners as necessary.

2.2 Possible improvements

A number of improvements have been identified for the above technique. These are described
below:

I Improved access rights for bulk data retrieval
Access to ICTR’s bulk access capability runs on research prototype hardware and is
supported only on a best endeavours basis. Making use of a processing user to obtain
data, the maximum classification that can be returned is TOP SECRET STRAP2 UK
Eyes Only. This means that some data currently retrieved using the manual method,
such as password-recovered items, is not available to the automated system. An
improved system would allow bulk access to more intercept data.

I Processing performance
Performance of queries on LLANDARCYPARK is comparable to that of UDAQ,
however when large numbers of items are retrieved the generation of statistics can
take some time (sometimes hours for large sets). Some simple code optimisations
could significantly improve this performance.

I Improvements to summary information scores and ranking
The value of using ranks to assess the usefulness of an email or UDAQ item
identified is limited, since the score used relates to the number of sections of Ki data
in a given file. This means where a very large number of IMSIs are identified, but
they appear in a single block, a low score is awarded. A value relating to the number
of MSI items would be more useful to identify the most important results.

Qof24

'l'his infommLiOn is exempL from disclosure under llre Freedom of lufommLion Act 2000 and may be subjeCL lo exempLiou under OIJler UK
information legislulion. ltefer disclosure requesLs to GCHQ on — (non—sec) or email —

TOPSECRETSTRAPI

