DOCID: 4086222

 

(U) Inspector 8.1. (U) The Inspector General shall:

General
a. (U) Conduct regular inspections and perform general oversight of
NSA/CSS activities to ensure compliance with this USSID.

b. (U) Establish procedures for reporting by NSAfCSS signals
intelligence elements oftheir activities and practices for oversight
purposes.

c. (U) Report to the DIRNSA/CHCSS. annually by 3| October.
concerning NSA/CSS compliance with this USSID.

d. (U) Report quarterly with the DIRNSA/‘CHC SS and General Counsel
to the President's Intelligence Oversight Board through the Assistant to
the Secretary of Defense (Intelligence Oversight).

(U) General 8.2. (U) The General Counsel shall:
Counsel
a. (U) Provide legal advice and assistance to all elements of the USSS
regarding SIGINT activities. Requests for legal advice on any aspect of
these procedures may be sent by CRITICOMM. secure email. or by _
NSA/CSS secure telephone 963 -3 I2 I. STE --or-n0'n'—'" '(b)(3)-PVL. 86-36
secure (301) 688-505.

 

 

 

 

b. (U) Prepare and process all applications for Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court orders and requests for Attorney General approvals
required by these procedures.

c. (U) Advise the L3 in inspections and oversight ofUSSS activities.

d. (U) Review and assess for legal implications as requested by the
DIRNSA/C HC SS. Deputy Director. l_§_r. Signals Intelligence Director- or
their designees. all new major requirements and internally generated
USSS activities.

e. (U) Advise USSS personnel of new legislation and case law that may
affect USSS missions. functions. operations. activities. or practices.

1". (U) RepOIt as required to the Attorney General and the President's
Intelligence Oversight Board and provide copies of such reports to the
DIRNSA/CHCSS and affected agency elements.

g. (U) Process requests from any DoD intelligence component for authority to
use signals as described in Procedure 5. Part 5. of DoD 5340.1 -R- for periods in
excess of 90 days in the development. test. or calibration of ELECTRONIC
SURVEILLANCE equipment and other equipment that can intercept

commu ni cat ions.

 

