DOCID: 4086222

all wiretaps in the United States. the acquisition of certain radio
communications where all parties to that communication are located in the
United States. and the monitoring of information in which there is a reasonable
expectation ofprivacy.

A|.3. (U) The M requires that all such surveillances be directed only at foreign
powers and their agents as deﬁned by the Act and that all such surveillances be
authorized by the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. or in
certain limited circumstances. by the Attorney General.

 

SECTION 2 — (U) GENERAL

 

 

an
PROCEDURE
AND
STANDARDS

A2.l. (U) Procedures and standards for securing Court orders or Attorney
General certiﬁcations to conduct electronic surveillances are set forth in the A_ct
Requests for such orders or certiﬁcations should be forwarded by the
appropriate Key Component through the NSA GC to the DIRNSAKCHCSS and
should be accompanied by a statement ofthe facts and circumstances justifying
a belief that the target is a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power and that
each of the facilities or places at which the surveillance will be directed are
being used. or are about to be used. by that foreign power or agent.

A22. (U) Ifthe proposed surveillance meets the requirements of the A_ct and the
Director approves the proposal. attorneys in the OGC will draw the necessary
court application or request for Attorney General certiﬁcation.

 

SECTION 3 - (U) MINIMIZATION PROCEDURES

(ll) Su rveillauces

A3_l. (UH-F666)- Surveillances authorized by the A_ct are required to be carried
out in accordance with the A_ct and pursuant to the court order or Attorney
General certiﬁcation authorizing that particular surveillance. In some cases. the
court orders are tailored to address particular problems. and in those instances
the NSA attorney will advise the appropriate NSA offices ofthe terms ofthe
court's orders. In most cases. however. the court order will incorporate without
any changes the standardized minimization procedures set forth in Appendix 1.

SECTION 4 - (U) RESPONSIBILITIES

 

(U) General
Counsel
Responsibilities

A4.|. (U) The (3_( will review all requests to conduct electronic surveillances as
defined by the A_ct. prepare all applications and materials required by the A_ct.
and provide pertinent legal advice and assistance to all elements of the United

 

