DOCID: 4086222

(11) Publicly available information means information that a member ofthe public could obtain on request. by
research in public sources. or by casual observation. (U)

(i) Technical data base means information retained for cryptanalytic. traffic analytic. or signal exploitation

purposes (#666)-

(i) United States person means a United States person as deﬁned in the Act. The following guidelines apply
in determining whether a person whose status is unknown is a United States person: (U)

(l) A person known to be currently in the United States will be treated as a United States person unless
positively identified as an alien who has not been admitted for permanent residence. or unless the nature or
circumstances ofthe person's communications give rise to a reasonable belief that such person is not a United
States person. (U)

(2) A person known to be currently outside the United States. or whose location is unknown. will not be
treated as a United States person unless such person can be positively identified as such. or the nature or
circumstances ofthe person's communications give rise to a reasonable beliefthat such person is a United States
person. (U)

(3) A person known to be an alien admitted for permanent residence loses status as a United States person if
the person leaves the United States and is not in complianc c with Title 3. United States Code. Section 1203
enabling re-ently into the United States. Failure to follow the statutory procedures provides a reasonable basis

to conclude that the alien has abandoned any intention ofmaintaining his status as a permanent resident alien.
(U)

(4) An unincorporated association whose headquarters or primary ofﬁce is located outside the United States
is presumed not to be a United States person unless there is information indicating that a substantial number of

its members are citizens ofthe United States or aliens lawﬁllly admitted for permanent residence. (U)

SECTION 3 - ACQUISITION AND PROCESSING - GENERAL (U)

 

(a) Acquisition (U)

The acquisition ofinf'ormation by electronic surveillance shall be made in accordance with the certiﬁcation
of the Attorney General or the court order authorizing such surveillance and conducted in a manner designed. to
the greatest extent reasonably feasible. to minimize the acquisition of information not relevant to the authorized

purpose of the surveillance-($669)-

(b) Verification 1U)

At the initiation ofthe electronic surveillance. the NSA or the Federal Bureau oflnvestigation. ifproviding
operational suppoﬂ- shall verify that the communication lines or telephone numbers being targeted are the lines
or numbers ofthe target authorized by court order or Attorney General certification. Thereafter. collection
personnel will monitor the acquisition of raw data at regular intervals to verify that the surveillance is not
avoidably acquiring communications outside the authorized scope ofthe surveillance or information concerning
United States persons not related to the purpose of the surveillance-($668)—

(c) Monitoring. Recording. and Processing (U)

 

