DOCID: 4086222

 

n'

 

such retention standards and that are known to contain communications of or concerning United States persons
shall be promptly destroyed 65-669)

 

(f) Non-Dertinent Communications {Ul
(I) Communications determined to fall within established categories ofnon-pertinent communications. such

as those set forth in subparagraph (6) of this section should not be retained unless they contain information that
may be disseminated under Sections :3. 6. or 7’ below. (U)

(2) Monitors may listen to all communications. including those that initially appear to fall within established
categories until they can reasonably determine that the communication cannot be disseminated under Sections

5. 6. or 7 below. (-S'GGO}

(3) Communications of United States persons will be analyzed to establish categories ofcommunications
that are not pertinent to the authorized purpose ofthe surveillance. (U)

(4) These categories should be established after a reasonable period ofmonitoring the communications ofthe
targets. (U)

(5) Information that appears to be foreign intelligence may be retained even ifit is acquired asa paIt ofa
communication falling within a category that is generally non-pertinent. fS-GGG'}

(6) Categories ofnon-pertinent communications which may be applied in these surveillance include:
(A) Calls to and from United States Government officials;
(B) Calls to and from children;
(C) Calls to and from students for information to aid them in academic endeavors;
(D) Calls between family members; and
(E) Calls relating solely to personal services. such as food orders. transportation. etc. {-S-GGG-l
(g) Change in Target's Location or Status ('S'GGGI

(I) During periods of known extended absence by a targeted agent of a foreign power from premises under
surveillance. only communications to which the target is a party may be retained and disseminated. ($660)

(2) When there is reason to believe that the target ofan electronic surveillance is no longer a foreign power
or an agent of a foreign power. or no longer occupies the premises authorized for surveillance. that electronic
surveillance shall be immediately terminated and shall not resume unless subsequently approved under the Act.
When any person involved in collection or processing of an electronic surveillance being conducted pursuant to
the Act becomes aware ofinf'ormation tending to indicate a material change in the status or location ofa target.
the person shall immediately ensure that the NSA's Office of General Counsel is also made aware of such

information. $6663-

SECTION 4 - ACQUISITION AND PROCESSING - SPECIAL PROCEDURES (U)

 

