DOCID: 4086222

(3) if the information is evidence of a crime that has been. is being. or is about to be committed and is
provided to appropriate federal law enforcement authorities. (Si-7'66)

(b) Dissemination (U)

A repOIt based on communications of or concerning a United States person may be disseminated in
accordance with Section 7 if the identity of the United States person is deleted and a generic term or symbol is
substituted so that the information cannot reasonably be connected with an identiﬁable United States person.
Otherwise dissemination of intelligence reports based on communications of or concerning a United States
person may only be made to a recipient requiring the identity of such person for the performance of ofﬁcial
duties but only if at least one of the following criteria is also met:

(I) the United States person has consented to dissemination or the information ofor concerning the United
States person is available publicly;

(2) the identity ofthe United States person is necessary to understand foreign intelligence information or
assess its importance. e.g.. the identity of a senior ofﬁcial in the Executive Branch;

(3) the communication or information indicates that the United States person may be:
(A) an agent of a foreign power;
(B) a foreign power as deﬁned in Section |01(a)(4) or (6) ofthe Act;

(C) residing outside the United States and holding an official position inthe government or military
forces of a foreign power

(D) a corporation or other entity that is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by a foreign power; or

(E) acting in collaboration with an intelligence or security service ofa foreign power and the United
States person has. or has had. access to classiﬁed national security information or material.

(4) the communication or information indicates that the United States person may be the target of
intelligence activities ofa foreign power;

(5) the communication or information indicates that the United States person is engaged in the unauthorized
disclosure of classified national security information. but only after the agency that originated the information
certiﬁes that it is properly classiﬁed;

(6) the communication or information indicates that the United States person may be engaging in
international terrorist activities;

(7) the acquisition of the United States person's communication was authorized by a court order issued
pursuant to Section 105 of the Act and the communication may relate to the foreign intelligence purpose of the
surveillance;

(8) the communication or information is reasonably believed to contain evidence that a crime has been. is
being. or is about to be committed. provided that dissemination is for law enforcement purposes and is made in

 

