DOCID: 4086222

     

_.' n'

the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) (see Annex A) will not be collected for
training purposes.

.-' n'

 

 

 

(ll) Training (33.1. (U) The training ofUSSS personnel in the operation and use of SIGINT collection
Guidance and other surveillance equipment shall include guidance concerning the requirements and
restrictions ofthe FISA . Executive Order 12333. and this USSID.

G32. (U) The use of SlGlNT collection and other surveillance equipment for training
purposes is subject to the following limitations:

a. (U) To the maximum extent practical, use of such equipment for training
purposes shall be directed against otherwise authorized intelligence targets;

b. (U) The contents of private communications ofnonconsenting US. persons may
not be acquired unless the person is an authorized target of electronic surveillance;
and

c. (U) The electronic surveillance will be limited in extent and duration to that
necessary to train personnel in the use of the equipment.

(33.3. (U) The limitations in paragraph G32. do not apply in the following instances:

a. (U) Public broadcasts, distress signals, or ofﬁcial United States Government
communications may be monitored, provided that, where government agency
communications are monitored, the consent of an appropriate ofﬁcial is obtained;
and

b. (U) Minimal acquisition of information is permitted as required for calibration
purposes.

G34. (U) Information collected during training that involves authorized intelligence
targets may be retained in accordance with Section 6 of this USSID and disseminated in
accordance with Section T of this USSID. Information other than distress signals collected
during training that does not involve authorized intelligence targets or that is acquired
inadvertently shall be destroyed as soon as practical or upon completion of the training and
may not be disseminated outside the USSS for any purpose. Distress signals should be
referred to the SIGINT Director.

 

 

