DOCID: 4086222

   

US'SI'D $130618
ANNEX H - (U) CONSENT FORMS

SECTION I — (U) PURPOSE

(U) Forms

H1. 1. (U) The forms set torth in this Annex have been approved by the National
Security Agency’s Ofﬁce of General Counsel (NSA OGC) to obtain and record
the express consent of a U. S. person for elements of the United States SIGINT
System (USSS) to collect and disseminate communications ot‘or concerning that
person for foreign intelligence purposes. to include but not limited to force
protection. hostage recovery. and other like purposes.

H12. (Uri-F968) Forms 1 and 2 can be used to obtain and record consent to
collect and disseminate a U. S. person‘s communications as well as references to
the US. person in communications. Forms 3 and 4 only provide consent to collect
and disseminate references to the US. person but neither Form 3 nor Form 4
provides consent to collect communications to or from the US. person who has
executed the form. Each form contained in this Annex may be reproduced.
provided the security classiﬁcations (top and bottom) are removed. It is the
responsibility of the user to properly reclassify the consent form that is suitable to
the user’s purposes in accordance with requisite security guidelines and
operational considerations ofthe customer whom the USSS is supporting.

H13. (U) Section 4.1.c. of United States Signals Intelligence Directive SPUUIS
states that the Director of NSA (DIRNSA) has authority to approve the consensual
collection ofcommunications to. from- or about US. persons. Elements ofthe
USSS proposing to conduct consensual collection should forward a copy of the
executed consent form and any pertinent information to the DIRNSA (or to the
Senior Operations Officer of the National Security Operations Center) for
approval of the proposed consensual collection activity. NSA OGC must also be
notified promptly of the proposed collection activity.

Hl.4. (U) If operational circumstances dictate. consent may be obtained orally or
may be recorded on a term other than one ofthe forms contained in this Annex.
However. any other form or method that is used to obtain and record a US.
person’s consent for elements ofthe USSS to collect and disseminate
communications of or concerning that person must be reviewed and approved by
NSA OGC.

CONSENT FORM l

 

