DOCID: 4086222

  

authorize the COLLECTION of information to. from. or about a
U. S. PERSON who is outside the UNITED STATES when
securing the prior approval ofthe Attorney General is not
practical because:

(a) (U) The time required to obtain such approval would
result in the loss ofsignifrcant FOREIGN
INTELLIGENCE and would cause substantial harm to
the national security.

(b) (U) A person’s life or physical safety is reasonably
believed to be in immediate danger.

(c) (U) The physical security of a defense installation or
government property is reasonably believed to be in
immediate danger.

(2) (UKf'F'OHO) In those cases where the DIRNSNCHCSS
authorizes emergency COLLECTION. except for actions taken
under paragraph d.{l)(b) above. DlRNSA/CHCSS shall ﬁnd that
there is probable cause that the TARGET meets one of the
following criteria:

(a) (U) A person who. for or on behalf of a FOREIGN
POWER. is engaged in clandestine intelligence activities
(including covert activities intended to affect the political
or governmental process). sabotage. or
INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST activities. or activities
in preparation for INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST
activities; or who conspires with. or knowingly aids and

 

“electronic surveillance” encompasses l) the acquisitio n by an electronic. mechanical. or other surveillance
device the contents of any wire or radio communications sent by or intended to be received by a particular.
known. United States person if the contents are acquired by intentionally targeting the US. person under
circumstances in which a person has a reasonable expectation of privacy and a warrant would be required for
law enforcement purposes. absent the US. person’s express or implied consent; 2) the acquisition by electronic.
mechanical. or other surveillance device ofthe contents of any wire communication to or from a person in the
United States. without the consent of any party thereto. if such acquisition occurs in the United States. but does
not include those communications of computer trespassers that would be permissible under section 251 l(2)(i) of
title 18 of the United States Code; 3) the intentional acquisition by an electronic. mechanical. or other
surveillance device of the contents of any radio communication. under circumstances in which a person has a
reasonable expectation ofprivacy and a warrant would be required ifthe acquisition were undertaken for law
enforcement purposes. and if both the sender and all intended recipients are located inside the United States; or
4) the installation or use ofan electronic. mechanical. or other surveillance device in the United States for
monitoring to acquire information. other than from a wire or radio communication. under circumstances in
which a person has a reasonable expectation of privacy and a warrant would be required ifthe acquisition were
undertaken for law enforcement purposes.

 

