19 August 2013

Tim Cook

Chief Executive Officer
1 Infinite Loop
Cupertino

CA 95014

United States

Dear Tim Cook,

I am writing because it has recently been reported in several media outlets that
the US National Security Agency is able to conduct sun/eillance of mobile
handsets while they are powered off. As a UK—registered charity that works
internationally to defend and promote the right to privacy, Privacy International is
extremely concerned by these revelations.

According to the Washington Post, "By September 2004, a new NSA technique
enabled the agency to find cellphones even when they were turned off. [United
States Joint Special Operations Command] troops called this ‘The Find’" [ii]. This
report seems to suggest that even while a handset is off, some piece of it
remains active and traceable.

In a recent statement, you state, “We will continue to work hard to strike the
right balance between fulfilling our legal responsibilities and protecting our
customers’ privacy as they expect and desen/e.” [i]. Consistent with Apple’s
statement regarding the privacy of your customers, we are seeking greater
clarification on how your mobile handsets, when powered off, might reveal an
individual’s location.

For most consumers, when they turn off one of your handsets, they have a
reasonable expectation that the device is powered off, is not emitting or
receiving a signal, and does not have any piece of the mobile phone still 'on'. If
the report is true, a phone being trackable while powered off could have
significant implications for the locational privacy of your users.

In addition to your own commitment to uphold the privacy of your customers,
Apple also has an obligation to respect the privacy of its handset customers
under the First Principle of the United Nations Global Compact. This states that
“businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally
proclaimed human rights”, which includes the privacy of your customers[iii].
Furthermore, the GSMA Mobile Privacy Principles mandates “a robust and

46 Bedford Row, London, WC1 R 4LR
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7242 2836 | https://www.privacyinternational.orq
Registered Charity 1147471

