effective framework for the protection of privacy, where users can continue to
have confidence and trust in mobile applications and services.” The Principles
go on to say that they apply to “[d]ifferent stakeholders, such as the relevant
sen/ice or application provider, the mobile operator, the handset manufacturer
and the operating system or other software provider”, which includes Apple [iv].

We should be grateful if you could provide responses to the following questions
and where appropriate identify which models of your handsets your answer
relates:

1. When the user requests any of your handsets to be powered off, what
components, if any remain active i.e. consuming power?

a. If some components do remain active, what is the power source
for these components i.e. capacitor, battery or power transmitted
from an external source?

2. Is there any condition, or set of conditions, whereby components of your
handsets would be subsequently activated after the user requests any of
your handsets to be powered off, other than by the user requesting the
phone to be powered on?

a. If some components do activate, can the command or set of
commands to activate originate from within the handset
hardware?

b. If some components do activate, can the command or set of

commands to activate originate from within the handset’s
Operating System?

c. If some components do activate, can the command or set of
commands to activate originate from a source external to the
handset?

3. Do any of your handset's transceivers remain active or become active

after the user has requested the handset to be powered off without any
further user interaction?

4. Is there any other way of causing one of your handsets to emit a signal
while the handset is powered off and without any further interaction from
the user?

We would ask you to kindly acknowledge receipt of this letter and consider
responding in a timely manner. We look fonNard to your response.

Kind Regards,

Dr. Richard Tynan
Privacy International

46 Bedford Row, London, WC1 R 4LR
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7242 2836 | https://www.privacyinternational.orq
Registered Charity 1147471

 

