US. Department of Justice

 

 

Ofﬁce of Legislative Aﬁaim
Ofﬁce ol‘the Assistant Anomey General 5’me D.C. 20530
February 2, 201 l
The Honorable Mike Rogers
Chairman
The Honorable C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger
Ranking Minority Member

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
US. House of Representatives
Washington, DC 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman and Congressman Ruppersberger:

T'FS-lPlease ﬁnd enclosed an updated document that describes the bulk collection programs
conducted under Section 2l5 of the PATRIOT Act (the "business records" provision of the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA)) and Section 402 of FISA (the "pen/trap"
provision). The Department and the Intelligence Communityjointly prepared the enclosed
document that describes these two bulk collection programs, the authorities under which they
operate, the restrictions imposed by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, the National
Security Agency's record of compliance, and the importance of these programs to the national
security of the United States.

ITS). We believe that making this document available to all Members of Congress, as we did
with a similar document in December 2009, is an effective way to inform the legislative debate
about reauthorization of Section 215. However, as you know, it is critical that Members
understand the importance to national security of maintaining the secrecy of these programs, and

that the HPSCI's plan to make the document available to other Members is subject to the suict
rules set forth below.

T118) Like the document provided to the Committee on December 13, 2009, the enclosed
document is being provided on the understanding that it will be provided only to Members of
Congress (and cleared HPSCI, Judiciary Committee, and leadership staff), in a secure location in
the HPSCI's ofﬁces, for a limited time period to be agreed upon, and consistent with the rules of
the HPSCI regarding review of classiﬁed information and non-disclosure agreements. No

 
 
   

 
  

Classt
Reason:
Declas '

