Bac round

(ISALSl-ANB-Since the tragedy of 9/ 1 1, the Intelligence Community has developed an
array of capabilities to detect, identify and disrupt terrorist plots against the United States and its
interests. Detecting threats by exploiting terrorist communications has been, and continues to be,
one of the critical tools in that effort. Above all else, it is imperative that we have a capability to
rapidly identify any terrorist threats emanating from within the United States.

W Prior to the attacks of 9/1 1, the NSA intercepted and transcribed seven calls
from hijacker Khalid al—Mihdhar to a facility associated with an al Qa’ida safehouse in Yemen.
However. NSA’s access point overseas did not provide the technical data indicating the location
from where al—Mihdhar was calling. Lacking the originating phone number, NSA analysts
concluded that al—Mihdhar was overseas. In fact, al-Mihdhar was calling from San Diego.
California. According to the 9/11 Commission Report (pages 269-272):

"Investigations or interrogation of them [Khalid al—Mihdhar, etc], and investigation of
their travel andfinancial activities could have yielded evidence of connections to other
participants in the 9/11 plot. The simple fact of their detention could have derailed the
plan. In any case. the opportunity did not arise. "

(WToday. under FISA Court authorization pursuant to the “business records”
authority of the F ISA (commonly referred to as “Section 215”), the government has developed a
program to close the gap that allowed al-Mihdhar to plot undetected within the United States
while communicating with a known terrorist overseas. This and similar programs operated
pursuant to F ISA, including exercise of pen/trap authorities, provide valuable intelligence
information.

(U) Absent legislation, Section 215 will expire on February 28, 2011, along with the so—
called “lone wolf” provision and roving wiretaps (which this document does not address). The
pen/trap authority does not expire.

W The Section 215 and pen/trap authorities are used by the US. Government
in selected cases to acquire signiﬁcant foreign intelligence information that cannot otherwise be
acquired either at all or on a timely basis. Any US. person information that is acquired is
subject to strict, court-imposed restrictions on the retention, use, and dissemination of such
information and is also subject to strict and frequent audit and reporting requirements.

"(TS/7617M)- The largest and most signiﬁcant use of these authorities is to support two
important and highly sensitive intelligence collection programs under which NSA collects and
analyzes large amounts of transactional data obtained from certain telecommunications service
providers in the United States.

Although these programs have been briefed to the
Intelligence and Judiciary Committees, it is important that other Members of Congress have
access to information about these two programs when considering reauthorization of the expiring

