'TOP'S‘EERE‘FﬁeGM-INSFWQFQRN—

PATRIOT Act provisions. The Executive Branch views it as essential that an appropriate
statutory basis remains in place for NSA to conduct these two programs.

Section 215 and Pen-Trap Collecti_orl

WUnder the program based on Section 215, NSA is authorized to collect from
certain telecommunications service providers certain business records that contain information
about communications between two telephone numbers, such as the date, time, and duration of a
call. There is no collection of the content of any telephone call under this program, and under
longstanding Supreme Court precedent the information collected is not protected by the Fourth
Amendment. In this program, court orders (generally lasting 90 days) are served on-

ieieaammunieatiens companies—

The orders generally require production of the business records (as described
above) relating to substantially all of the telephone calls handled by the companies, including
both calls made between the United States and a foreign country and calls made entirely within
the United States.

 

WUnder the program based on the pen/trap provision in FISA, the government
is authorized to collect similar kinds of information about electronic communications — such as
“to” and “from” lines in e-mail, certain routing information, and the date and time an e—mail is
sent — excluding the content of the e-mail and the “subject” line. Again, this information is
collected pursuant to court orders (generally lasting 90 days) and, under relevant court decisions,
is not protected by the Fourth Amendment.

WBoth of these programs operate on a very large scale. —
_
—
_
_

However, as described below, only a tiny fraction of such records are ever Viewed by NSA
intelligence analysts.

Checks and Balances

FISA Court Oversight

—(—TS#SL#N-F—} To conduct these bulk collection programs, the government has obtained
orders from several different FISA Court judges based on legal standards set forth in Section 215
and the FISA pen/trap provision. Before obtaining any information from a telecommunications
service provider, the government must establish, and the FISA Court must conclude, that the
information is relevant to an authorized investigation. In addition, the government must comply
with detailed “minimization procedures” required by the FISA Court that govern the retention
and dissemination of the information obtained. Before NSA analysts may query bulk records,
they must have reasonable articulable suspicion — referred to as “RAS” ~ that the number or e-

mail address they submit is associated with—

3
W

