TOP-SEW

Intelligence Value of the Collection

W As noted, these two collection programs signiﬁcantly strengthen the
Intelligence Community’s early warning system for the detection of terrorists and discovery of
plots against the homeland. They allow the Intelligence Community to detect phone numbers
and e—mail addresses within the United States that may be contacting targeted phone numbers
and e—mail addresses associated with suspected foreign terrorists abroad and vice—versa; and
entirely domestic connections between entities within the United States tied to a suspected
foreign terrorist abroad. NSA needs access to telephony and e-mail transactional information in
bulk so that it can quickly identify and assess the network of contacts that a targeted number or

address is connected to. whenever there is RAS that the tar eted number or address is associated
with—

—Importantly, there are no intelligence collection tools that, independently or in
combination. provide an equivalent capability.

WTO maximize the operational utility of the data, the data cannot be collected
prospectively once a lead is developed because important connections could be lost in data that
was sent prior to the identiﬁcation of the RAS phone number or e-mail address. NSA identiﬁes
the network of contacts by applying sophisticated analysis to the massive volume of metadata —
but always based on links to a number or e-mail address which itself is associated with a
counterterrorism target. (Again, communications metadata is the dialing, routing, addressing or
signaling information associated with an electronic communication, but n_ot content ) The more
metadata NSA has access to, the more likely it is that NSA can identify, discover and understand
the network of contacts linked to targeted numbers or addresses Information discovered through
NSA’s analysis of the metadata is then provided to the appropriate federal national security
agencies, including the FBI, which are responsible for further investigation or analysis of any
potential terrorist threat to the United States.

************************

W In conclusion, the Section 215 and pen/trap bulk collection programs
provide an important capability to the Intelligence Community. The attacks of 9/11 taught us
that applying lead information from foreign intelligence in a comprehensive and systemic
fashion is required to protect the homeland, and the programs discussed in this paper cover a
critical scam in our defense against terrorism. Recognizing that the programs have implications
for the privacy interests of US. person data, extensive policies, safeguards, and reviews have
been enacted by the FISA Court, DOJ, ODNI and NSA.

