RC5 9 -111e placesinvolved in an investigation: Position entity and Virtual entity

 

EH
0 I :Target type, for the people being tapped

O
o n : Person type, for the people not being tapped

The places involved in an investigation: Position entity and Virtual entity

The system defines two types of entities to represent the places involved in an investigation:

0 ® : Position type, physical sites

El

0 :‘v’irtual type, virtual sites like web pages

Managing entities

The analyst manages entities so they represent the evolution of the investigation, thus:
0 it adds entities to monitor other people and places deemed of interest
0 it adds details to the entities to provide new data to the system to identify relations
between entities
o it eliminates entities when the people or places are deemed insigniﬁcant to the inves-
tigation

Target entity

The Target entity is automatically created when the target is created in the Operations section.
The name and description are the same ones assigned in the Operations section.

6 NOTE: Target entities cannot be eliminated from the Intelligence section. To eliminate
them, targets must be eliminated from the Operations section.

0 NOTE: the Target name and description can be changed without any impact on the
Operations section.

The system adds Target entity details with information gathered from evidence (i.e.: photos, most
frequently contacted people). The analyst can add other information in hisfher possession.$ee
"Target entity details" on page 71

Person entity

The Person entity can be manually created by the analyst or automatically by the system.

The Person entity is defined by IDs sfhe uses to communicate, by phone or internet (i.e.: phone
number, Skype contact).

0 NOTE: the more information in the entity detail sheet, the higher the probability the
system identiﬁes links between that entity and other entities.

See "Person entity details” on page .7?

 

Analyst’s Guide I ver.1.4 SEP—2013 I RCSQ I 2013. HTS.r.l. -pag. 54

