SECRET//RELTO USA, FVEY

 

(U) QICR Scenarios

AChinafRussia/lndiaflmn—
centered bloc daaller'ges U5.
supremacyancl setsthe pacefor
innovation in keytechnologies
WORLD WITHOUT THE WEST

m

BRIC'S BUST-UP

STATE DOMINATED

Locked in mu lti-polar competition,
statesjockey for resources and
adopt mercantilist trade policies in
a precarious balanoe of power

- (C//REL) October Surprise: Amidst the rise of mega—
corporations as the purveyors of traditional state
functions, the IC focuses on uncovering economic,
ﬁnancial, and corporate ground truth, as well as on
providing early warning on outbreaks of infectious
disease and natural disasters.

(U) QICR developed concepts to illustrate how today’s
operating model will have to change for the intel—
ligence enterprise to remain effective. QICR identiﬁed
two sets of concepts. Concepts that were critical to the
success of the IC across all the scenarios were labeled
”safe bets,”indicating that we should begin planning
for their eventual adoption. Concepts that were critical
to only one or two scenarios were deemed ”strategic
hedges,”implying that we should experiment with

  

ALIGNED

     
   

GLOBAL COOPERATION

FRAGMENTED

Identity-based groups suppla ntthe
autl'lorityof nation-states. competing
with one anotherfor inﬂuence in a
chaotic political environment

POLITICS IS NOT ALWAYS LOCAL

OEIlVNIWOCI EIlVlS'NON

Power shifts to oorporations and
megacitiesallowing global ills
(climate change to intemational crime)
to spi Ial out ofcontrol

them and consider long—lead development of essential
elements, while monitoring ongoing events to assess
whether more aggressive action is appropriate.

(U) The QICR process also delineated sample capabili—
ties to clarify the intent and impact of these concepts
for activities, people, technology, etc. These capabilities
are not meant to be either deﬁnitive or exhaustive, but
rather serve as a starting point for further analysis.

(U) Key Assumptions

(C//REL) Based on the NIC’s Global Trends 2025 study,
the QICR identiﬁed three key assumptions that set
the context for the future posture of the IC. First, the
United States will remain among the most prominent

SECRET//RELTO USA, FVEY

