SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY

forces in world politics, but the relative ascent of
other state and non-state actors across the full range
of power dimensions—military , economic, technologi—
cal, and social—will place new and different demands
on the IC.

- (C//REL) The proliferation, differentiation, and
sophistication of actors in global politics will
make it far more difﬁcult to access targets
(whether in the physical or virtual world),
maintain a consistent and continuous presence,
and inﬂuence populations.

- (S//REL) With more tenuous U.S. technological
leadership in key sectors such as biotechnology,
nanotechnology, and computing, the IC may have
less unilateral advantage in critical intelligence
capabilities (e.g., penetrating encrypted informa—
tion networks).

- (S//REL) The IC will increasingly rely on information
and communication technology that is at least
partly of foreign origin, rendering critical IC func—
tions more vulnerable to attack or manipulation in
increasingly hard—to—detect ways.

(C//REL) The second key assumption about the world in
2025 is the transformation in the information (and
thus cyber) environment, speciﬁcally in the volume,
velocity, and variability with which information ﬂows
between and among individuals, groups, and states.
This new environment will be enabled by two paral—

lel and reinforcing phenomena: the incorporation of
sensors and processors into many more items (from
weaponry to foodstuffs) and almost universal access to
inexpensive networked computing and communica—
tions technologies. As such, there will be an exponen—
tial increase in the amount of data ofall types poten—
tially available to the IC, its U.S. Government customers,
hostile governments, and adversary non—state actors.

Quadrennial Intelligence Community Review Final Report 2009

Information will also move at ever increasing speeds,
and it will exist in greater ranges of formats that
change more frequently.

- (C//REL) Most intelligence targets will increasingly
operate simultaneously in the physical and virtual
worlds, requiring the IC to adopt a seamless ap—
proach between the two domains as well.

- (C//REL) Balancing intelligence with the protection
of privacy and civil liberties will be even more chal—
lenging in 2025.The IC will need socially, constitu—
tionally, and politically acceptable ways to handle
exponentially more information no matter what
future comes to pass. In many cases, meeting the
challenge will come down to more effective data

management. Automated analysis of”anonymized”

data could detect threats much earlier without
infringing upon privacy. Role—based access could
help mitigate the risk of abuse.

(C//REL) The third key assumption about the operating
environment of 2025 is that IC customers and part-
ners will be”digital natives”and will have a signiﬁ—
cantly different set of expectations of the IC. They will
tend to behave in two fundamentally different ways,
both of which contravene current orthodoxy.

- (U) Having grown up with the likes of Wikipedia,
Facebook, Flickr, and Google Earth, customers will
be accustomed to building their own context, un—
derstanding, and in many cases, technical details.

- (U) Customers will be much less reliant on ofﬁcial
intermediaries and much more comfortable reach—
ing out directly to networks of experts and data
(whether or not they are inside the IC).

SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY

3

