SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY

 

(U) Safe Bet:
Sentient Enterprise

 

 

(U) In 2025, electronic data will have increased ex—
ponentially as massive amounts of stored data have
accumulated and access to mobile communications
and networked sensors have become ubiquitous.

The volume, velocity, and variability of data will pose
enormous search and knowledge—management chal—
lenges, driving the IC toward non—linear processing
and autonomous organization of critical information.
Virtual interactions will be integral to daily communica—
tions for millions of benign purposes, but hostile actors
will also use this medium as a means to build ideologi—
cal and ﬁnancial support and for planning and execu—
tion ofoperations. In addition, signals of threats may
be few, weak, or conﬂicting because of the ability to
shelter activity from domains that require a signature.

(C//REL) The concept of Sentient Enterprise postures the
IC for this circumstance, creating a sensing and learn—
ing environment capable of identifying and respond—
ing to voluminous, simultaneous, and continuous
inputs. The SentientEnterprise will track and manage
thousands of exabytes of data every day (1 exabyte is
the equivalent of 1 00,000 times the Library of Con—
gress, which holds 19 million books), enabling iterative
assessments in real time, not days or weeks. The data
it manages will be universally discoverable, accessible,
and usable by humans and machines equally. Indeed,
the human—machine interface will allow the individual
to interact directly with a uniﬁed information architec—
ture. The enterprise will be able to continuously and
autonomously process, evaluate, and act on new data
without regard to structure or format. The enterprise
will log expert users’ interactions with the data, while
gleaning new insights from more generalist users. By
so doing, the entire enterprise will create, share, and
advance corporate knowledge in a rich and seamless
interplay where machines and humans learn together.

(U//FOUO) The SentientEnterprise will have the ad—
ditional beneﬁt of freeing intelligence professionals
from mundane tasks so that they can focus on activi—
ties reliant on human judgment. Analysts will be able
to allocate much more of their time to the front and
back ends of the intelligence cycle, focusing much
more energy on scoping problems with customers,
driving collection, and helping customers understand
the implications of different courses of action. More
seasoned ofﬁcers will be able to more ably mentor
novices, collaborate with other experts, and inﬂuence
decision—makers.

(U) Sample Key Capabilities

- (Cl/REL) Automation.The IC would emplace
sensors and monitor applications that run autono—
mous collection of the most relevant data, trigger
pattern recognition sequences, and process raw
feeds. This would require supercomputer—like
capabilities at every ”computational point—of—pres—
ence,”from computer terminal to digital handheld
device. Automation (e.g., in language translation,
gisting, relational analysis, and trend assessment)
would allow veriﬁcation and validation of the ac—
curacy of information.

- (U) Artiﬁcial Intelligence (Al). Application of
advanced AI techniques would make it possible to
continuously improve understanding of complex
threat environments, discern the relative impor—
tance of data, and adapt quickly to changes indi—
cated by sensor data and automated analysis (thus
providing indication and warning).This would
allow the experts to focus on translating critical
information to decision—makers in an effective and
time—efﬁcient manner.

SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY

