SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY

- (SI/REL) Self-Learning. The institutional knowl—
edge of the Sentient Enterprise would increase the
user’s ability to recall events and signiﬁcant facts
to build relational awareness. Simultaneously, the
human—machine interface would enable the user
to continuously reﬁne the ”algorithms”that trans—
late human judgments into machine language so
that the system actively learns.

- (U) Human Interface. The Sentient Enterprise
would employ dashboards and similar interfaces
to provide continuous, real—time visualization of
the operational environment. Interfaces would in—
clude interactive touch—screen mapping ofa large
variety of data types that enables zoom and pan
capabilities to scan the physical, virtual, and social
environments.

Illustrative Example

 

(U) Sentient Enterprise

- (U) Collaborative Features. The SentientEnter-

prise would employ social—networking tools and
virtual models of the real world to monitor the
threat environment, enable collaboration, and

test alternative hypotheses. This would include
social—networking tools that allow outside experts
to be tapped quickly so they could make contribu—
tions in a crisis and provide input into the analytic
process.

- (SI/REL) Protection.The continuously updated,

multilayered, and changing boundaries of Sentient
Enterprise would be selectively permeable, requir—
ing innovative system or data—speciﬁc protection
capabilities for ﬂow of data into and out of the
data stream.

 

f—\
Jr W
2' (S//REL) The reporting, when combined with
l 5' flight schedules, passenger manifests, and
\ \h _ _ _ _ _ public health data, yields near-reaI-time under-
\ . r- t -"' "“—-———-—__ standing of the likely transmission vectors to

 

 

   

the United States. The sensitivity of environ-
mental sensors at U.S. ports of entry adjusts

accordingly, allowing the quarantine of infected \
travelers.

 

 

INTERNATIO INLA

 

 

 

 

(S//REL) Immunologists access the reporting and
analysis to determine that the strain of influenza,
while dangerous, is controllable. This informa-
tion is broadcast to international public health
organizations. Underlying models, algorithms,
and collection strategies self-update to anticipate
future outbreaks.

 

(S//REL) Through pervasive sensors, the
Sentient Enterprise discovers an anomalous
pattern of influenza in a remote Chinese
province. Analysts’ queries automatically
trigger human collection in Hong Kong and
Bangkok and remote technical collection in
less permissive environments.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Quadrennial Intelligence Community Review Final Report 2009

 

SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY 7

