SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY

 

(U) Safe Bet:

Segmented Customers, Differentiated Services

 

 

(U) The expectations of digitally native users and a
much more diverse set of partners will drive a differ—
ent conceptualization of the customer. First, the IC will
engage its customers with greater responsiveness,
employing highly iterative customer segmentation,
requirements, and satisfaction analyses to understand
their working styles and decision—making needs.
Second, the IC will focus its efforts on more tailored
services (e.g., visualization techniques and tabletop
role—play exercises), vice products, to meet the full
spectrum of customer needs. Third, the IC will provide
data and analyses anywhere (in U.S.—based ofﬁces or
in the ﬁeld), in more dynamic ways (from interactive
streams available via wireless devices to immersive,
three—dimensional presentations), and at multiple clas—
siﬁcations.

(U) The concept of Segmented Customers, Differentiated
Services synthesizes these conclusions with a construct
of three categories of customers. These categories are
not dissimilar to today, but their needs will be met with
different capabilities. At one end of the spectrum, ”do—
it—yourself”customers will want data and analytic tools
from the IC so they can answer their own questions. In
the middle of the spectrum are users ofanalytic prod—
ucts who will expect to see—and work with—the un—

derlying data and models, frequently in collaboration
with the IC. At the other end of the customer spectrum
are users who will turn to analysts for tailored analy—
sis and products that they can apply without further
reﬁnement or context.

(U) Sample Key Capabilities

- (Cl/REL) Interactive Visualization. The IC would
deploy dashboards, datastreams, and other
interfaces that allow customers to continuously
monitor the operational environment, rather than
rely on static judgments.

- (Cl/REL) Interactive Tools. Interactive decision—
support tools would allow customers to conduct
their own sensitivity analyses, test hypotheses, and
discover new insights from underlying data, either
with or without an intelligence ofﬁcer assisting.

- (Cl/REL) Customization. Customer interfaces
would enable users to enter speciﬁc requirements,
update them dynamically, and build tailored prod—
ucts in various forms and for various media.

SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY

