 

SECRET//RELTO USA, FVEY

 

(U) Safe Bet:

Responsive Presence

 

(C//REL) In 2025, the United States will face much
greater difﬁculty penetrating key states that suddenly
emerge as areas of national security interest. It may
have neither an extensive forward military presence
nor much ofa physical diplomatic and intelligence
presence, depriving it ofan understanding of the
socio—cultural environment. Adding to the challenge,
despite the transformation in the information environ—
ment, nation—states in some scenarios may try to cor—
don off their information infrastructures into national
intranets. In such a world, the IC will need a way to
rapidly deploy suites of intelligence capability (collec—
tion, analysis, security, communications, etc.) over the
horizon to theaters of political—military competition
where U.S. Government presence and infrastructure
are minimal or have been withdrawn. In addition, the
IC will need to be prepared to deploy its resources in
cyberspace to meet quickly emerging challenges.

(C//REL) Responsive Presence addresses this challenge
by applying the expeditionary model developed in the
military context, bringing the capability ofan overseas
station to bear when and where necessary. It builds on
today’s deployable organizational models and rests on
several principles: development of small tactical teams
capable of rapid deployment and long, autonomous
operation in a variety ofenvironments; a small logisti—
cal and communications footprint that is largely carry—
in/carry—out; and a robust, self—sufﬁcient communica—

tions capability. Similarly, the intelligence enterprise
will need a cyber architecture that can rapidly move
into IT network”clouds” undetected and maintain that
presence with few additional resources.

(U) Sample Key Capabilities

- (SI/REL) Data Exﬁltration and Covert Communi-
cations. Exﬁltrating intelligence from non—permis—
sive environments will be crucial. A critical enabler
would be covert communications with a negligible
forward footprint. U.S. intelligence ofﬁcers and
sensitive sources will need to move data in an
unattributable and undetected way, sometimes
from within commercial entities possessing great
technical prowess and robust cyber and electronic
security protective procedures. Although the likely
advent of transnational, high—bandwidth wireless
communications services will offer an environ—
ment with ”lots to hide behind,”it will also contain
many highly competent, and potentially antago—
nistic, actors.

- (SI/REL) Expanded Reachback. Deployed units
would have ready reachback to a heterogeneous
set of expert analysts from IC elements, other
U.S. Government departments, academia, and
non—governmental organizations. They would
have trusted and secure means to communicate
with these partners that would enable real—time
exchange while protecting the most sensitive
operational details.

SECRET//RELTO USA, FVEY

10

