 

SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY

 

(U) Strategic Hedge:

Technology Acquisition by All Means

 

(C//REL) QICR identiﬁed two scenarios in 2025 in which
the United States’ technological and innovative edge
slips—despite our countervailing efforts—and shifts
to denied areas. Under one scenario, a bloc of states
actively seeking to undermine U.S. geostrategic leader—
ship could deny access to key emerging technologies.
Another possibility is that the technological capacity
of foreign multinational corporations could outstrip
that of US. corporations. The IC would be challenged
to understand technological innovation outside its
traditional competencies (e.g., weapons systems) and
in domains where it traditionally has focused less effort
(e.g., commercial research and development (R&D)).
Because technological advancement tends to be ex—
ponential rather than linear, either development could
put the United States at a growing—and potentially
permanent—disadvantage in crucial areas such as
energy, nanotechnology, medicine, and information
technology.

(C//REL) To offset risk in these particular futures, the IC
would need to deploy a set ofentrepreneurial tactics
to maintain a technological advantage. This concept
rests on a multi—pronged, systematic effort to gather
open source and proprietary information through
overt means, clandestine penetration (through physi—
cal and cyber means), and counterintelligence.

(U) Sample Key Capabilities

- (SI/REL) S&T Analysis. The IC would monitor sci—
entiﬁc and trade journals, patent ﬁlings, and other
”gray material”datastreams, enabled by technolo—
gies associated with Sentient Enterprise, to discover
latent patterns that precede technological innova—
tion.Thus, the IC would be better able to manage
the problem of”tens ofanalysts”sifting through
”thousands of pages.”

- (SI/REL) ”Thousands of Conversations.” The
IC would need the ability to access proprietary
sources of information in permissive environ—
ments such as foreign universities, industry trade
shows, and government conferences. This could
include cooperating US. students, professors, and
researchers reporting bits of non—public informa—
tion that by themselves are not sensitive, but
in aggregate could help the IC make inferences
about breakthrough technological innovations.
The key challenge would be working closely with
the academic and scientiﬁc communities (which
would include non—U.S. persons), gaining trust,
and monitoring potential ”threats”while continu—
ing to advance U.S. scientiﬁc progress.

- (SI/REL) Direct Penetration. In denied or more
restrictive environments such as state—supported
R&D centers, the IC would continue to apply hu—
man intelligence (HUMINT) tradecraft and employ
HUMINT—enabled close access collection. This
would include recruitment of sources and assets,
and provision ofappropriate technical means to
acquire and exﬁltrate sensitive information.

SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY

12

