SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY

- (SI/REL) Cyber Operations. The IC would sustain
close—access collection, frequently by second and
third parties, to non—public and/or covert centers
ofinnovation by implanting applications (i.e., bots)
that run automated tasks and sensors in software
and hardware used by foreign researchers and
manufacturers, and by conducting computer—
network exploitation of foreign R&D intranets. In
select instances, this could also involve develop—
ment of long—term sources.

- (Cl/REL) S&T Counterintelligence. Counterintel—
ligence in both the public and private sectors
would not rely solely upon defensive measures,
but would also undertake proactive measures to
detect, identify, and degrade or neutralize foreign
efforts to illegally acquire U.S. technology in areas
where we retain a leadership position. Counter—
intelligence would actively seek out and engage
foreign entities involved in illicit intelligence col—
lection operations using offensive methods and

become as effective in the cyber sphere as in the
physical sphere.

Illustrative Example

 

(U) Technology Acquisition by All Means

 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 

 

 

(S//REL) Sustained reporting from open and 3

clandestine sources enables a team of experts ' (S/lREL) The IC makes separate clandestine

from the IC, academia, and industry to assess approaches to India and Russia to break up the

the likelihood—moderate—and impact—high—of partnership. lt conducts cyber operations against

a breakthrough by India and Russia. Counterin- research facilities in the two countries, as well as the
telligence reporting SUQQBStS the tWO countries H‘— intellectual “supply chain” supporting these facilities.
are not very interested in US. superconductivity Finally, it assesses whether and how its findings
efforts, which may indicate they believe they would be useful to US. industry.

have a secure lead.

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 (S//REL) India and Russia are pursuing high-

' temperature superconductivity, which would
yield a significant economic advantage to the
first adopter. But four separate streams of
intelligence, when put together, yield a new
insight—the two countries are working together.

 

 

 

Quadrennial Intelligence Community Review Final Report 2009

 

SECRET//REL TO USA, FVEY l3

