 

SECRET//RELTO USA, FVEY

 

(U) Strategic Hedge:

Human Terrain in the Virtual World

 

(C//REL) In 2025, non—state identity and afﬁnity groups
operating seamlessly across physical and virtual worlds
could be the key players in global politics. Some of
these groups could pose a grave challenge to US. po—
litical legitimacy and physical security. In virtual worlds,
individuals could tailor multiple personas for different
settings, and both individuals and groups could have
many overlapping or non—obvious relationships. There—
fore, understanding the different roles an individual or
group might play in multiple contexts would represent
the central challenge around which the IC would be
oriented.

(S//REL) In this circumstance, the IC would increasingly
need to employ a virtual presence to complement

its physical presence. That presence would include
maintaining a forward position inside unconventional
partner and target entities by routinely embedding
ofﬁcers not only in foreign intelligence services, as it
does today, but also in cooperative non—state groups.
The IC would also routinely employ private citizens

as proxies for sensitive analytic and collection tasks.
Academics, business people, and others would form an
IC—led standing dialogue, participating in collaborative
analytic teams when and as their expertise warranted.

(U) Sample Key Capabilities

- (SI/REL) The Virtual IC. The IC would require
collection approaches and counterintelligence
capabilities such as online techniques for human
collection. Developing and protecting online cover
personas and authenticating the identity ofonline
sources and data would continue to be critical
elements of HUMINT and counterintelligence
tradecraft.

- (SI/REL) Bridging Domains. An automated cross—
cueing of collection platforms, including distrib—
uted sensors, would maintain a seamless approach
to monitoring and understanding individuals and
groups as they move between and operate across
the physical and virtual worlds.

- (SI/REL) Identity Assurance. As it builds a web of
complex and shifting partnerships, the IC would
need fail—safe means to authenticate its partners’
identities, conduct counterintelligence, and con—
trol access to its most sensitive intelligence, which
will be more challenging in 2025 than today due
to the proliferation of key technologies.

- (SI/REL) Counterintelligence. The IC would de—
velop increasingly effective methods for detecting,
deterring, and exploiting hidden foreign manipu—
lation of IC activities, and recognizing the trusted
insiders who are threats. Offensively, the counter—
intelligence target ofchoice would shift to persons

SECRET//RELTO USA, FVEY

14

