 

SECRET//RELTO USA, FVEY

 

(U) Strategic Hedge:
Money Mastery

 

(C//REL) |f corporations, megacities, and foreign
governments were to limit access to data critical to
the provision ofglobal public goods such as macro—
economic stability, U.S. policymakers could come to
rely on the IC to assist in efforts to collect and analyze
this closely held ﬁnancial and economic information
and create an ”economic operating picture” similar to
the ”common operating picture”the military strives for
today. Basic elements of today’s ﬁnancial intelligence
(e.g., international datasets maintained by the Interna—
tional Monetary Fund and others, government reports,
and industry analyses) would be unavailable, unreli—
able, or misleading.

(C//REL) In this case, the IC would need a concept of
Money Mastery to penetrate corporations, markets, for—
eign central banks, and foreign ﬁnance ministries and
organizations so that it could gather and analyze pro—
prietary data. The IC also would need to track critical
commodities markets in much greater detail as well as

the full range of illicit ﬁnancial markets and economies.

This concept would far exceed today’s approach to
ﬁnancial and economic intelligence in scale and scope
and would require increasingly sophisticated targeting
expertise, even more aggressive HUMINT collection,
and processing tools.

(U) Sample Key Capabilities

- (SI/REL) ”White/Grey/Black” Literature Exploita-

tion. Overtly, the IC would monitor open markets
in stocks, commodities, and currencies. To acquire
non—public but unprotected data such as propri—
etary business information, it would use two—way
information sharing with trusted and cooperative
corporations and foreign governments. Clan—
destinely, the IC would use human and technical
means, including sophisticated tracking soft—
ware, to access closely held market, ﬁnancial, and
business data, be it inside corporations, foreign
governments, or other institutions.

- (Cl/REL) Geoeconomic Analysis. Intelligence pro—

fessionals would monitor the stability of the global
economic system (notjust single nation—state
economies) for early warning ofdisruptions and
would help policymakers understand the implica—
tions of different policy interventions.

- (SI/REL) Verify and Validate. The IC would assume

an even greater validation function to discern the
truth in ofﬁcial economic data issued by nation—
states and multilateral organizations. To do this,
the IC would employ a standing collaborative
network of economic experts—drawn from many
sectors of the economy, business, and governmen—
tal bodies, foreign and domestic—while mitigat—
ing the potential insider threat.

SECRET//RELTO USA, FVEY

l6

