SECRET/lREL TO USA, FVEY

 

(U) CONCLUSION

 

(U) QICR 2009’s charge was to build on and distill the
implications of the NIC’s Global Trends 2025 so that |C
leadership could begin to manage the risks associated
with plausible alternative future environments chal—
lenging to the nation and the IC. This Final Report high—
lights six concepts (three "safe bets”and three "strategic
hedges”) and identiﬁes a number of illustrative capa—
bilities that would enable these concepts. |C elements
are strongly encouraged to deepen and broaden the
discussion of safe bets and strategic hedges begun
here, and to begin to consider whether and how stron—
ger foundations for these concepts might be laid into
the next several planning and programming cycles.

(C//REL) Collectively, these ﬁndings imply four broader
implications for how to posture the IC to deal with the
range of uncertainty in 2025. First, the IC will have to
manage highly ﬂuid relationships to deal with the
dynamism ofa more competitive security environment
and the ﬂuidity among partners, sources, and targets.
This will require the IC to accept more risk despite
increasingly complex counterintelligence and security
challenges.

- (Cl/REL) Varying Patterns. The IC will need to
maintain both enduring partnerships grounded in
deep trust and shared interests as well as marriag—
es of convenience that are ephemeral and ad hoc.
Relationships with foreign partners, in particular,
will have to be much more variegated and extend
to unorthodox allies, be they states or non—state
actors.

- (Cl/REL) Range of Partners. The IC will need to
more aggressively leverage outside expertise
(foreign and domestic, governmental and non—
governmental) across all facets of the intelligence

Quadrennial Intelligence Community Review Final Report 2009

enterprise (from collection to security to technol—
ogy development). Reliance on outside expertise
will require a commensurate level of vigilance

in the form of effective counterintelligence to
ensure the integrity of information and systems
are protected. Equally important, the IC will have
to recruit, train, educate, mentor, and retain a suf—
ﬁciently sized cadre of intelligence professionals
capable of sustaining a rigorous dialogue with ex—
ternal experts. Finally, the IC will need to continue
developing products and services for state, local,
and tribal governments as well as the private sec—
tor, recognizing that these customers have special—
ized information needs and generally do not have
access to classiﬁed information systems.

- (Cl/REL) Changing Roles, Unknown Attributes.
The IC will need ways to deal with partners whose
roles vis—a—vis U.S. security interests change rapidly.
Partners or sources in one dimension may very
well be intelligence targets in another. Addition—
ally, the IC will have to deal with actors who more
actively conceal their physical locations, nationali—
ties, true identities, and true purposes. The |C’s
operating and management model (to include
tradecraft) will have to work across jurisdictions
and domains to deal with these challenges, which
probably will mandate a more robust collection
and analytic posture inside the United States.

(S//REL) Recommendation: Appropriate elements of the
IC should conduct a policy, regulatory, and legal review to
ensure the IC can meet the challenges of highly ﬂuid rela-
tionships in ways that respect the desire of the American
people for privacy and civil liberty.

SECRET/lREL TO USA, FVEY

19

