SECRET/lRELTO USA, FVEY

(S//REL) Second, the IC will need to manage a singular
operational architecture that allows for the discov—
ery and tracking of targets across domains, be they
physical or virtual, foreign or domestic, in order to deal
with the new ways that a greater volume of informa—
tion will ﬂow. Continued access to, and effective use

of, space will likely serve as a critical enabler to provide
important collection and communication capability to
work across this divide, although it may be challenged
in scenarios where states or corporations compete for
primacy in space. Achieving such an architecture will
be more difﬁcult ifand when U.S. rivals attempt to mili—
tarize space and/or endeavor to increase signiﬁcantly
the risk to US. space—based intelligence assets. At the
same time, the IC will need to maintain visibility into
”off—the—grid”activity that has no digital signature or

a very ambiguous physical signature but that can still
have disproportionately large effects.

- (Cl/REL) Dynamic Interaction. The IC will need an
architecture capable of adapting quickly as threats
and issues emerge and readily cueing collection
and operations, often across the physical and
virtual domains.

- (Cl/REL) Few, Conﬂicting, or Weak Signals. The IC
will need to synthesize data from multiple, often
novel, sources to identify threats or opportunities.
In particular, the IC will need to anticipate, detect,
understand, and place into context digital signals
that have few, if any, physical manifestations.

($//REL) Recommendation: Appropriate elements of the
IC should assess the organization and structure of the
intelligence enterprise to ensure it will support the kind
of operational architecture necessary to deal with the
transformed information environment of 2025.

(U) Third, the IC will need to change the role of the
intelligence ofﬁcer to deal with a dynamic external
environment and adapt to new customer needs. The
IC will need ofﬁcers trained in multiple ﬁelds, from
technology to methodology to all—source analysis,
with many ﬁlling multiple roles at the same time. The
workforce model will need profound reassessment in
at least two dimensions:

- (Cl/REL) Building Well-Rounded Experts. IC
personnel will still need specialized training, in—
cluding in languages, but they will require deeper
understanding of context to perform theirjobs.
Initiatives like joint duty will need to be greatly
expanded and complemented with an array of de—
velopmental, educational, and training activities.

- (Cl/REL) Cross-Training. The IC will need to
prepare intelligence professionals for careers in
which the distinction between analyst and collec—
tor is increasingly irrelevant, particularly in virtual
worlds. At the same time, the IC will need to build
teams to bring a range of skills to bear on complex
problems, because some degree of individual
specialization will persist.

(U) Recommendation:Appropriate elements of the IC
should review how to adapt the workforce management
model to promote ﬂexibility, responsiveness, collabora-
tion, and appropriate incentives and rewards.

(S//REL) Fourth, the IC will need to maintain strong
information and identity assurance to address the
likely erosion in our technological advantage and
the new dynamics of the digital medium, which will
introduce new risks to our IT infrastructure and new
methods of denial, deception, and misdirection.

SECRET/lRELTO USA, FVEY

2O

