SECRET/lREL TO USA, FVEY

- (SI/REL) Declining IT Security. The IC will have to
operate in an environment where computing infra—
structure is more difﬁcult to secure, advanced en—
cryption is far more pervasive, and our cryptologic
advantages may persist only in niches where we
have focused resources to achieve breakthroughs.
Indeed, the IC may not be able to provide compre—
hensive security for its entire IT infrastructure and
may have to use such offsetting strategies as ”hide
in plain sight.”

- (SI/REL) Digital Deception. The IC will need to op—
erate in an increasingly virtual operational environ—
ment where denial, deception, disinformation, and
hostile collection will intensify the risks posed to
collection systems and analytical methodologies.
Recognizing the difference between clandestine
adversaries and non—threatening interlocutors will
require new sets of knowledge, skills, and abilities
from our HUMINT, security, and counterintelli—
gence cadres.

Quadrennial Intelligence Community Review Final Report 2009

- (SI/REL) Identity Assurance. The IC will need ro—
bust ways to discover, manage, and protect identi—
ties as many more people use multiple online
personas and leverage increasingly sophisticated
anonymizing techniques. It will need approaches
to mitigate this challenge by taking advantage of
linked identities and entities providing a web of
potentially identifying information to cue social—
network analysis.

(C//REL) Recommendation:Appropriate elements of the
IC should assess the information and identity assurance
capabilities of the IC to ensure it will be able to meet the
digital challenges of 2025.

(U) In conclusion, QICR 2009 highlights the urgency to
begin developing new approaches to prepare for an
uncertain future. Elements of the National Intelligence
Program, foreign intelligence services, state, local,

and tribal governments, and industry are encouraged
to consider these insights in conducting their own
long—term planning efforts. The rigor with which QICR
2009 developed these ideas to mitigate strategic and
institutional risk must now be translated into meaning—
ful agenda items for the IC and its partners to carry
forward.

SECRET/lREL TO USA, FVEY

21

