SECRET/lREL TO USA, FVEY

 

(U) FOREWORD

 

(U) Ifone does not consider the long—range future, one will never cease to be surprised.The Director of
National Intelligence (DNI) has an annualized planning/programming process to guide short—term (1—5 years)
perspectives. The National Intelligence Strategy (MS) and Vision 2015 provide mid—term (5—1 0 years) perspec—
tives. The Quadrennial Intelligence Community Review (QICR) provides an essential long—term piece, looking
out between 10 and 20 years. This longer term view complements shorter term assessments, challenges basic
assumptions, exposes the potential risks of extrapolating tomorrow’s needs from today’s conditions, and
examines missions and capabilities in light ofalternative futures.

(U) This report describes the results of the 10—month QICR. Building on the National Intelligence Council’s
Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World, experts from across the Intelligence Community (IC), other U.S.
departments and agencies, academia, think tanks, and industry assessed the implications of the year 2025 for
the IC.

(U) QICR 2009 developed alternative future scenarios based on Global Trends 2025 to explore concepts and
capabilities the IC may need to fulﬁll critical missions in support of U.S. national security. It does not purport
that any one future will materialize, but rather outlines a range of plausible futures so that the IC can best
posture itself to meet the range of challenges it may face.

(S//REL) This Final Report summarizes six concepts for how the IC may need to operate by 2025. Of particular
note, QICR 2009 identiﬁes three concepts that are critical to the success of the IC across a wide range of future
scenarios ("safe bets”) and suggests that these concepts merit attention in the IC’s longer term planning
efforts, including the NIS, Intelligence Planning Guidance, and other guidance documents. The ﬁrst concept

is the development ofa sensing and learning environment capable of handling massive amounts of infor—
mation (Sentient Enterprise). The second is the adoption ofa more dynamic and tailored customer—services
model (Segmented Customers, Differentiated Services). The third is the adoption of an expeditionary mindset
that can project operational capability and enhanced analytic connectivity in both physical and virtual
venues (Responsive Presence).

(U) We hope this report will stimulate spirited debate and rigorous thinking as to how the IC can best posture
and prepare for a range of future environments.

2d £2. £44 .- 2.
C74

David R. Shedd
Deputy Director of National Intelligence
Policy, Plans & Requirements

Quadrennial Intelligence Community Review Final Report 2009

SECRET/lREL TO USA, FVEY

