SECRET//RELTO USA, FVEY

 

(U) EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

 

(U) lntroduction.The Quadrennial Intelligence Community Review (QICR) 2009 used scenario—based analysis to help the Intel—
ligence Community (IC) consider how to best minimize strategic surprise and manage institutional risk to meet challenges that
may emerge by 2025.

(C//REL) Drawing on the National Intelligence Council’s Global Trends 2025:A World Transformed, QICR made three key assump—
tions about the future landscape for intelligence. First, other actors will increase in power and relevance relative to the United
States. Second, the information environment will radically transform in scope, complexity, and intensity, with intelligence targets
operating seamlessly and simultaneously between the physical and virtual worlds.Third, customers and the IC workforce will be
”digital natives" with different operating models and expectations for how to perform and leverage the business of intelligence.

(U) Concepts for Intelligence in 2025. In this landscape, certain organizing principles for performing intelligence functions—
”concepts" in this report—could help turn future challenges into opportunities. QICR identiﬁed three concepts (”safe bets") that
appear critical to the success of the IC across a wide range of possible futures and therefore merit consideration in today’s long—
term planning activities.

- (C//REL) SentientEnterprise is an IC that creates a sensing and learning environment for humans and intelligent machines to
analyze ”exabytes" of data in near—real time to generate and test hypotheses, autonomously process and evaluate insights to
cue collection, and self—update/self—correct.

- (C//REL) Segmented Customers, Differentiated Services envisions an IC postured to provide more customized tools, products,
and services to an expanding set of customers with different styles and end uses.

- (C//REL) |n Responsive Presence, the IC has an expeditionary intelligence capacity to deploy small teams to hostile (physical or
virtual) environments with minimal infrastructure, while readily drawing on more diverse and instantly collaborative analytic
expertise to guide operations and directly leverage the insights gained.

(U) ”Strategic hedges"are concepts deemed highly relevant in some possible futures but less relevant in others, which the IC may
need to develop as circumstances warrant.

- (C//REL) Technology Acquisition byA/l Means envisions the IC aggressively employing a mix of overt means, clandestine
penetration, and counterintelligence tactics to address severe U.S. technological erosion vis—a—vis near—peer competitors and
global corporations.

- (C//REL) |n Human Terrain in the Virtual World, the IC confronts environments dominated by non—state actors, requiring uncon—
ventional human collection methods with more ﬂexible sets of analytic partners to track highly empowered, cyber—immersed
individuals and groups.

- (C//REL) Money Mastery describes an operating concept that requires the IC to compensate for the possible loss of access to
reliable ﬁnancial and economic data (at the global, national, and sector levels) by penetrating corporations, foreign ﬁnance
ministries, central banks, and market participants to create an ”economic operating picture.”

(SI/REL) Conclusion. Four broader implications arise from the QICR 2009. First, the IC will have to manage highly ﬂuid relation—
ships to deal with the dynamism of a more competitive national security environment. Second, it will need to manage a singular
operational architecture to deal with the new ways that a greater volume of information will ﬂow. Third, the IC will need to main—
tain strong information and identity assurance to address the likely erosion in its technological advantage and the new dynamics
of the digital medium. Fourth, the IC will need to change the role of the intelligence ofﬁcer to deal with a dynamic external envi—
ronment and adapt to new customer needs.To posture the IC to deal with these implications, QICR suggests the value offurther
study by appropriate IC elements in the areas of policy, regulation, and law; organization and structure; workforce management;
and information and identity assurance.

ii SECRET//RELTO USA, FVEY

