SECRET/lREL TO USA, FVEY

 

 

(U) INTRODUCTION

(U) Every 4 years, the Intelligence Community (IC)
assesses the most challenging issues it could face
beyond the standard planning cycle. This process is
known as the Quadrennial Intelligence Community
Review (QICR).

(U) QICR 2009 was a scenario—based strategic planning
activity that looked out to the year 2025 and consid—
ered alternative future environments (i.e.,"scenarios”),
missions the IC might be called on to perform, and the
concepts and some illustrative capabilities that would
be needed to fulﬁll those missions. This Final Report
summarizes the key ﬁndings and recommends next
steps to help position the IC to address the challenges
of the future.

(U) Methodology

(U) The QICR 2009 applied best practices of scenario
planning used in both industry and government. Using
as a starting point Global Trends 2025:A Transformed
World, produced by the National Intelligence Council
(NIC), QICR developed four scenarios that were de—
signed to be divergent, plausible, challenging, and rel—
evant to the IC. These scenarios are not predictive, but
illustrate the range of possible challenges we might
confront. QICR organized the scenarios along two key
dimensions of uncertainty—the relative importance
of the nation—state and the extent ofglobal coop—
eration—and then incorporated additional relevant
features of possible future environments gleaned

Quadrennial Intelligence Community Review Final Report 2009

from seven recognized geo—strategic scenario sets
developed by public, private, U.S., and foreign sources.
(See the QICR Scenarios Report, January 2009, for a full
discussion of the scenarios.)

(U) The scenarios served as the basis for analysis of
missions the IC might be asked to perform in support
of national objectives and the concepts and capabili—
ties the IC would need to perform these missions. (The
four scenarios are summarized in the ﬁgure on page
2.) Each scenario implied a core set of missions for the
IC that was not exhaustive but highlighted the key de—
mands customers would likely place on the IC in 2025
beyond the array of established intelligence activities:

- (C//REL) World Without the West: Although a coali—
tion of four well—armed competitor states calls for
continued robust military analysis, understanding
energy, natural resources, and technological inno—
vation emerges as a critical mission for the IC.

- (C//REL) BRIC’s* Bust-Up: As the United States
struggles to maintain its world standing amidst
competing and insular blocs, the IC is predomi—
nantly focused on economics and commercial
science and technology (S&T) missions.

- (C//REL) Politics Is NotA/ways Local: With non—state
afﬁnity groups driving international politics, the
IC is focused on transnational threats, particularly
crime and cyber attack.

 

* (U) The acronym BRIC refers to Brazil, Russia, India, and
China, or more generally, the big developing economies.

SECRET/lREL TO USA, FVEY

1

