 

DATE/PREPARER: 11/09/2010 SLS Topic Page Classification Screen Number
(U) Lifespan of a RAS JFGP-SEeREﬁ‘eeh/HNWNGFGRN- 10 of 13
A roval

 

 

FRAME ID: 3090

(U) What is the Lifespan of a RAS Approval?

—(=FS+fS+hLN-F) RAS determinations for foreign identifiers are legally effective for one

 

NEXT FRAME ”13100 year. NSA CT has implemented guidance that requires RAS review/re-approval every

 

 

 

180 days.

(TMS—WN—F) Although a RAS determination for an identifier reasonably believed to be
BACK FRAME ID: 3080 used by a United States person is legally effective for 180 days, NSA CT has
ALT TAG. implemented guidance that requires RAS review/re-approval every 90 days.
GRAPHIC/AV: - €FS#SI#NF) After the sunset of an identifier’s RAS approval -- or anytime before -- the

(U) Use a graphic to show effective dates
for US. and non-U.S. person RAS
approval

identifier can be submitted for RAS revalidation through the same process.

(U) (Show passing of time and then a
graphic of an identifier with a “RAS-
APPROVED” or “DENIED“ applied over the
identifier)

 

 

 

(TS#S-l-#N-F) (HMC Character): RAS approvals have sunset or expiration dates which analysts must comply with. Currently a RAS approval on a foreign
identifier, per the FISC, is legally valid for one year. However, NSA CT has taken a conservative approach and implemented guidance that mandates RAS
review and re-approval every 180 days. Likewise, a RAS approval for an identifier believed to be used by a US. person has a legal lifespan of 180 days
perthe FISC, but NSA CT has implemented guidance requiring review and re-approval every 90 days. It is the analyst's responsibility to monitorthe sunset
dates and take appropriate actions before the RAS nomination expires.

(TSA‘SWNE) (HMC Character): Any identifier can be resubmitted for revalidation at any time. Revalidations require proof ofthe same categories of
information that was required for the original request. Revalidations should try to validate that the original evidence is still true by presenting any new
documentation to demonstrate that the identifier is still associated with the Foreign Powers named in the Orders. It is up to the HMCs to make an informed
revalidation, based on the totality of the evidence. If you are uncertain of your evidence, submit the nomination anyway and work with the HMCs through
the process.

 

 

WN
Page 14 of 17

