 

DATE/PREPARER: 11/09/2010 SLS Topic Page Classification Screen Number
(U) What is RAS? lOP-SECREMCOlVIl-NMNOEORN— 4 of 13

 

 

FRAME ID: 3035

(U) The RAS Equation

(U) (Continue to display definition of RAS then pull out the RAS Equation.)

 

 

NEXT FRAME ID: 3040 Reasonable Articulable Suspicion (RAS) Standard

ﬁSﬁS-Ivﬁ‘N-F) An identiﬁer will meet the Reasonable Articulable Suspicion Standard if based on
the factual and practical considerations of everyday life on which reasonable and prudent
persons act, there are facts giving rise to a reasonable articulable suspicion that the identiﬁer is

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BACK FRAME ID: 3030 associated with one of the specified Foreign Powers.”

ALT TAG: — Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court
GRAPHIC/AV: RAS Equation

(U) Continue to display definition of RAS _ . _

then pull out the RAS Equation. identiﬁer + Lmk to Fore1g11Power = RAS

 

 

 

 

 

 

(TSI’I‘SliI‘N-F) (OGC Attorney). As it applies to the BR and PR/TT Orders RAS is a suspicion that an identifier. sach_ as an amelil add-ress. telephone-(number
or other identifier type is associated with one ofthe-Foreign Powers named in BR and PR/TT Orders The
FISC requires that NSA base that suspicion on a certain level of factual evidence -- and NSA must articulate those facts that connect the identifier with one
ofthe named terrorist organizations. The requirement that these facts be articulable effectively provides reasonable assurance that analyst queries of the
metadata are based on substantive information (meaning more than simple hunches or uninformed guesswork). So in orderto obtain RAS approval for an
identifier, analysts must provide enough factual evidence that it would lead a reasonable person to suspect that an identifier is associated with one of the
named Foreign Powers in the BR and PR/TT Orders. We will get more into the kinds of facts that may be used and how they can support a RAS
nomination later in this module.

'(‘FSﬂSlﬁN-F) In summary, based on the factual and practical considerations of everyday life W
determine if there is a reasonable articulable suspicion that the identiﬁer is associated with]
named in the Orders. There must be at least one qualifying fact giving rise to the suspicion that the identifier is associated

with one of the Foreign Powers listed in the BR and PR/TT Orders. Unless that determination is made, the identifier cannot be approved to query this
metadata repository. NSA's implementation of the BR and PR/TT Orders mandates that the RAS nomination statement must clearly link the identifier/target

 

 

 

 

to one ofthe Foreign Powers and document this finding in_ which will be discussed later in the module.
—

JFGP'SEERE‘BW
Page 6 of 17

