3)

4)

5)

lklr DE‘. “Ell-LUIVIIIV 1' [\[LL 1U UDfK. l.‘l\

(U) an unincorporated group or association. a substantial number ofthe members of which const1tute ( l)
or (2) above: or

(U) a company incorporated within the United States, including U.S.-ﬂagged non—governmental aircraft
or vessels. but not including those entities which are openly acknowledged by a foreign government or
governments to be directed and controlled by them.

(U) Additionally. a person known to be currently in the United States will be treated as a “U.S. person”
unless that person is reasonably identified as an alien who has not been admitted for permanent
re31dence. or if the nature ofthe person’s communications or other information in the contents or
circumstances of such communications give rise to a reasonable beliefthat such person is not a U.S.
person. Any person located outside the United States will be treated as a non—U.S. person unless there is
a reasonable belief that such person is a US. person.

III. (U) BACKGROUND

a. (TSf/SU/REL) NSA routinely sends ISNU minimized and unminimized raw collection associated with
selectors from multiple Target Ofﬁce Primary Interest (TOPI) ofﬁces in Analysis and Production, S2 as part of
the SIGINT relationship between the two organizations. This mutually agreed upon exchange has been
beneﬁcial to both NSA’s and ISNU’s mission and intelligence requirements.

b. (TS//Sl//REL) NSA and ISNU have previously discussed the protection ofUS. Person information, in relation
to tasking joint collection operations. and agreed in principle to not task communications of U.S. citizens. The
proposal to share unminimized raw collection requires additional procedures to meet formal requirements.

In March 2009, ISNU was given an overview brieﬁng during the Raw Material conference and agreed. in
principal to protect U.S. Person information. It was determined that more formalized training is needed. The
date ofthis training is TBD.

IV. (U) RESPONSIBILITIES

a. (U) NSA shall:

I)

2)

(TS/«’SI/fREL) Provide an annual review and training ofthese procedures with ISNU.

(TS/r'SIh/REL) Regularly review a sample of ﬁles transferred to ISNU to validate the absence of U .8.
Persons identities.

b. (U) ISNU shall:

I)

2)

(TS//Sl/«’REL) Not use any technology or equipment that is furnished under the accommodation
procurement process to (a) intentionally target communications to. from, or about US. Persons
anywhere in the world or (b) intentionally target any person meeting the definition ofa U.S. Person
provided in Section 11 above.

(TSNSIHREL) Not use any information provided by NSA. as raw material or otherwise, to intentionally

intercept the communications to. from or about a U.S. person. “Intercept" means the use ofwords or
phrases. such as a name. tclex number or answerback. address. telephone number, email address or any

TOP SECREI w’COMINlV/REI. TO USA. ISR

