4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

X Ur DEM [\Ll 'ik.\JlV1IIVI [\[LL 1\} UDIW, t\l\

combination of such terms, to acquire non-public communications. It applies to both electronic and
manual acquisition. including follow—on queries of stored communications.

(TS//SI/«”REL) Strictly limit access to storage systems containing raw SIGINT provided by NSA
exclusively to properly cleared ISNU personnel and to properly cleared members of Israeli Intelligence
services who ISNU has determined have a strict need to know. Access will be limited to those
individuals who have been trained in the aforementioned procedures.

(TS/«'SI/x’REL) Disseminate foreign intelligence information concerning US. persons derived from raw
SIGINT provided by NSA — to include any release outstde ISNU in the form of reports. transcripts.
gists. memoranda, or any other form of written or oral document or transmission —— only in a manner
that does not identify the US. person. ISNU agrees that it will shield the identities of US. persons both
by name and by context. i.e. its disseminations shall be in such a way that a reasonably well—informed
person cannot identify the US. person from the other contents ofthc dissemination.

(UHFOUO) Ensure that any ﬁles containing the identities of US. persons withheld from dissemination
are retained for no more than one year.

(TS/./SI/"/REL) Ensure that any requests from outside parties, including all ISNU customers, for release

of such identities are referred to NSA. and that same is not released without written permission from
NSA.

(U/v'FOUO) Destroy upon recognition any communication contained in raw SIGINT provided by NSA
that is either to or from an official ofthe US. Government. “US. Govcrnment officials" include
officials ofthe Executive Branch (including the White House. Cabinet Departments. and independent
agencies); the US. House of Representatives and Senate (members and staff); and the US. Federal
Court system (including. but not hmited to. the Supreme Court}. “Ofﬁcials" include civilian and
military members and employees performing the official business of these branches of government, and
is independent ofseniority or position.

(U/I'FOUO) Process only for purposes unrelated to intelligence against the US any communications
contained in raw SIGINT provided by NSA that include references to activities. policies, and views of
US. ofﬁcials.

V. (U) PROCEDURES

3. (TS///SI,"/REL) ISNU must inform NSA immediately upon detection, via the SUSLAIS. when the identity ofa
US. person is found in the raw SIGINT provided to ISNU. Additionally. ISNU must provide a written report.
via the SUSLAIS and CHIPPEWA on a quarterly basis. detailing the circumstances of those instances.

(TS,’/SI,//REL) [SN U must inform NSA immediately upon discovery, via the SUSI.AIS. ofinadvertent

intercept ofU.S. person communications where a selector that is believed to belong to a valid foreign target is
subsequently found to belong to a U.S. person. ISNU further agrees to detask any and all such selectors. and to
destroy any intercept collected as a result of such selectors. whether processed or not.

VI. (U) OVERSIGHT

a. (TSHSIVREL) ISNU agrees to put in place appropriate management controls to ensure adherence to the above
policies. and to provide NSA with an annual report describing these controls and enumerating any and all

TOP SECREI '«COIVIINTHREL TO USA. ISR

