 

SECRET// COM IN T//ORCON,N OFORN/fXI

the United States. It is not clear, however, whether NSA’s current procedures permit chaining
through a United States telephone number, I]? address or e—mail address. (S//SD

We conclude that the proposed communications metadata analysis, including contact
chaining, is consistent with (i) the Fourth Amendment; (ii) F ISA; and (iii) the electronic
surveillance provisions contained in Title 18 of the United States Code. The Supplemental
Procedures are also consistent with the requirements of Executive Order 12333. (S//Sl)

As you consider this proposed change, you should be aware of the following:

( 1) Congressional Over-Sight, At the request of the Secretary of Defense, NSA briefed
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the United States Senate and the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence of the United States House of Representatives on this proposed
' change before the Secretary signed the Supplemental Procedures.

(2) Oversight of NSA ’s Activities Under the Supplemental Procedures. Because NSA
has in its databases a large amount of communications metadata associated with persons in the
United States, misuse of this information could raise serious concerns. The General Counsel of
NSA has provided a letter, attached at Tab B, deseribing how NSA will oversee access to and use
of this data and committing to report annually to you on NSA’s communications metadata
program. As part of this reporting, NSA undertakes to inform the Department of “the kinds of
information that NSA is collecting and processing as communications metadata.” Particularly as
technology changes, this requirement is important because the legal standards governing
metadata are quite different from those governing the contents of a communication. We believe
that the oversight and reporting regime that this letter describes is a reasonable one, and it
informs our recommendation that you approve the Supplemental Procedures. (S//SI)

(3) The Central Intelligence Agency ’s (CIA) Interest in Conducting Similar
Communications Metadata Analysis. On July 20, 2004, the General Counsel of CIA wrote to the
General Counsel of NSA and to the Counsel for Intelligence Policy asking that CIA receive from
NSA United States communications metadata that NSA does not currently provide to cm. The
letter ﬁom CIA is attached at Tab C. Although the proposed Supplemental Procedures do not
directly address the ClA’s request, they do resolve a significant legal obstacle to the i
dissemination of this metadata from NSA to CIA. (S//Sl//NF)

‘ (4) Department of Defense ’s (DOD) Interest in Allowing Other DOD Entities to Have
Access to this Data and to Conduct Similar Analysis. The DOD’s General Counsel’s Ofﬁce has
informed us that, in the future, other DOD entities may wish to obtain and analyze
communications metadata using the same rules that NSA uses to do so. The proposed
Supplemental Procedures do not apply to these other DOD entities, but you should be aware that

SECRET//COMlNT//ORCON,NOFORN//Xl

-3-

