 

SECRET/ICOMINT/fORCON,NOFORN/IXI

Accordingly, llIC Supplemental Procedures that would govern NSA’S analysis of- communications
metadata expressly state that the DOD Procedures and the Classiﬁed Annex do not apply to the
analysis of communications metadata. Speciﬁcally, the Supplemental Procedures would clarify
that “contact chaining and other metadata analysis do not qualify as the ‘interception’ or
‘selection’ of communications, nor do they qualify as ‘us[ing] a selection term,’ including using a
selection term ‘intended to intercept a communication on the basis of ... . [some] aspect of the
content of the communication.” Once approved, the Supplemental Procedures will clarify that
the communications metadata analysis the NSA wishes to conduct is not restricted by the DOD .
procedures and their Classiﬁed Annex. (Sf/SI)

The Supplemental Procedures deﬁne the terms “communications metadata,” “contact
chaining,” and “metadata analysis.” The Supplemental Procedures also state that NSA will
conduct contact chaining and other inetadata analysis only for valid foreign intelligence
purposes; disseminate the results of its analysis in accordance with current procedures governing
dissemination of information concerning U.S. persons as set forth in Section 4.A.4 of the
Classiﬁed Annex; and investigate any apparent misuse or improper dissemination of metadata
and report the same to the appropriate oversight organization(s). (Sf/SI)

In addition, the NSA letter accompanying the Supplemental Procedures proposes a
regulatory and oversight regime for the handling of communications metadata of US. persons.
NSA states that access to communications metadata will be restricted to only those personnel
with a need for this data in the performance of their ofﬁcial duties. Before gaining access to
communications metadata, NSA or other personnel working under the authority of the Director
of NSA will receive mandatory training approved by the General Counsel ofNSA on the proper
use of such databases and chaining tools. When logging into the electronic data system, users
will view a banner that re—emphasizes key points regarding use of the data, chaining tools, and
proper dissemination of results. NSA will also create an audit trail of every query made in each
database containing U.S. communications metadata, and a network of auditors will Spot—check
activities in the database to ensure compliance with all procedures. In addition, the NSA
Oversight and Compliance Ofﬁce will conduct periodic super audits to verify that activities
remain properly controlled. Finally, NSA will report any misuse of the information to the NSA’S
Inspector General and Ofﬁce of General Counsel for inclusion in existing or future reporting
mechanisms related to NSA’s’signals intelligence activities. (S//SI//OC,NF)

NSA also states it will report any changes to this oversight regime to the Assistant
Attorney General for the National Security Division, and, by October 15 of each year, will submit
a report to the Attorney General regarding the kinds of information the NSA is collecting and
processing as communications metadata, NSA’s implementation of its compliance procedures,
and any signiﬁcant new legal or oversight issues that have arisen in connection with NSA’s
activities described in this memorandum. (C)

SECRETf/COMINT/fORCON,NOFORN//Xl

-9-

