Classification: Top Secret ll COMINT ll X1

(U/IFOUO) Using a TCP connection, the SA would be sent as stream data to a predetermined
destination IP address and TCP port number. This method offers not only reliable network transport,
by allows acknowledgement feedback from the LP, making this method reliable.

(U/IFOUO) Using a steganographic tunnel the SA would hide within a higher-level network protocol.
This method offers both improved OPSEC from detection, but also offers reliable transport by
allowing acknowledgement feedback from the LP.

(C/ISI) Transmission of data packets would be similar to raw IP packet by its nature, but only the
destination lIP address is predetermined, all TCPIUDP ports and lCMP packets are allowed.

(C/ISI) Selection of method and parameters would be subject to the security posture imposed by a
target environment.

2.5. (U/lFOUO) Constraints and Timing Issues

(U/IFOUO) The FASHIONCLEFT protocol is designed to operate over an unreliable
network protocol where only communication from the sender is possible. Unless the
Session Announcement could occur using a reliable network protocol, and even a
bidirectional protocol, the data packets are clearly unreliable. To synchronize
FASHIONCLEFT communications between the sender and receiver entities under all
conditions, certain constraints and timing issues must be observed. Basically, the
FASHIONCLEFT sender (implant) has an active role for maintaining proper
synchronization, while the receiver (LP) has a passive role. What follows is a list of
conditions; follow by a discussion of each.

0 Sending of the Session Announcements

0 New or Continuation of a terminated Session

0 Termination of Session

0 Sending Data Packets to Session Announcement ports
a Duplicate Data Packets

- Simultaneous Exfil of Multiple Sessions

0 Early Termination

SENDING OF THE SESSION ANNOUCEMNETS

(UHFOUO) Generally the Session Announcement (SA) would be send prior to data
packets be sent. If the SA data is sent using an unreliable network transport, it may be lost
in transit. To overcome this, the SA data should be sent more than once. Since data
packets may arrive prior to SA data, the receiver will buffer all received IP packets for
fifteen (15) minutes. Once a valid SA arrives, the buffer will be scanned for possible data
packets. To insure at least one SA arrives, more than three should be sent within the 15—
minute time window, unless the SA is sent using a reliable protocol. In addition, for cases
where the duration of exfiltration of data packets is short and the SA path is unreliable, the
sender should also make at least three (3) attempts to send the SA.

TERMINATION OF SESSION

(UHFOUO) Once the session is established, the LP will terminate the session and stop
looking for and fonrvard data packets to the backend when the following two conditions are

met:
CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET ll COM I NT ll X1 DRV FM: NSA/CSSM 123-2
Dated: 24 Feb 98
DECL ON: x1
FASH|ONCLEFT_ProtocoI.doc Page 1 7 of 26 LLHZIS‘PifJ‘I’Sg gig/ﬁgggggfggggm

