Classification: Top Secret ll COMINT fl X1

(SI/SI) This interface is designed to support the reception of “cloned“ packets and their
associated metadata originating from implants, while supporting authentication of the
egress data and correlation of received packets to the appropriate metadata. To provide
greater flexibility for the implant, several configurable levels of encryption are supported.

(SI/SI) The following assumptions are made:

. This interface supports egress of data and does not support a command and
control channel.

- This interface is used by implants which for valid reasons are unable to implement
egress methods that require greater resources from the target, such as
encapsulation.

. Egress data must be associated with encrypted, authenticated metadata.

. This interface may not be suitable for all boundary defenses that could be
encountered within a target environment. Extensibility has been designed to allow
additional packet selection algorithms to be added, such that future changes to skirt
other defenses can be readily included.

(SI/SI) This interface implements four functions:

. Transmission of session announcements,

. Transmission of metadata,

. Transmission of data packets,

- Reconstruction of data packets using the metadata, and

- Reconstruction of sessions using metadata to track and collate data packets
belonging to a particular session.

(SI/SI) During session establishment, an implant authenticates itself to the CDR and
requests the CDR to begin reception of data packets that belong to this session. As part of
establishing the session, metadata about the session is passed, along with metadata that
the CDR requires to assign data packets to the session and collate data packets within the
session. The session establishment function uses the FOGYNULL protocol family to
authenticate and securely pass metadata, packet collation information and data packet
encryption status.

(SI/SI) There are several methods that an implant could use to collate data packets to the
appropriate session, but only one method can be used in any session. The implant picks
the appropriate Exfil Type — either “Packet“ or “Session,“ and either exfiltrates one
modiﬁed copy of a source packet per source packet, or assembles the source data
payloads from several source packets into one packet to be exfiltrated. The
FASHIONCLEFT interface design allows these methods to be extensible, so additional
methods can later be developed and included to meet operational constraints imposed by
boundary defenses.

(SI/SI) The data packets are generally a copy of a packet that was collected, and had its
destination address changed to send it to the CDR. Additional fields might have been
altered to support one of the methods of assigning data packets to a session and collating
data within a session. If selected during the session establishment, the payload section of
the packet may be encrypted, using the mode specified by the FASHIONCLEFT protocol
encryption mode selection in the FOGYNULL implant header.

CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET ll COM | NT ll X1 DRV FM: NSAICSSM 123-2
Dated: 24 Feb 98
DECL ON: x1
FASHIONCLEFT_Protoco|.doc Page 3 of 25 LLaZf‘Piflﬁg 33113223393 3355333 I: If;

