(U) The G20 -- the Group of Twenty -- consists of the G8 members plus: Arge
Brazil, China, European Union, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Soutl
Korea, and Turkey. Also invited to attend the Toronto G20 Summit are: Ethic]
Netherlands, Nigeria, Spain, and Vietnam, plus the Financial Stability Board,
Monetary Fund, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Developmel

Organization. (The next G20 Summit will be held during November 2010 in S
Korea.)

Intelligence Community Support Structure (U)

:ntina, Australia,
lAﬁica, South
aia, Malawi,

:he International
it, the United

Nations and its International Labour Organization, the World Bank Group, and the World Trade
eoul, South

 

(S/IREL) The Director of National Intelligence Representative (DNIR) in Ott

States Government (U SG) intelligence lead for the G8 and G20 Summits. The DNI's Special
Events Intelligence Coordinator (SEIC) will operate a Threat Integration Cent r (TIC) in the

US. Embassy in Ottawa to support him during both events. The TIC began n

22 June, and will operate 0600 to 2100 EDT from 24 through 27 June. The TIC will publish a

twice daily Situation Report, respond to Requests for Information and coordin
dissemination of intelligence and pre-event assessments.

NSA Support to Event Security (U)

(S/IREL) Relevant SID reporting ofﬁces are aware of the Summits and poiSed
timely matter intelligence related to the events. While NSA will have no physi
. TIC, direct coordination will be through the CTMMC and NSOC, who will fu]
with the Special U.S. Liaison Ofﬁce, Ottawa (SUSLOO) staff and provide thre
directly to the venues. NSA support planning has been closely coordinated wit
partner through SUSLOO.

(S/lSI/IREL) NSA support to both events may include, but is not limited to: ex

a is the United

al operations on

ate the

to report in a
cal presence in the
"ther collaborate
at warning

h the Canadian

ecutive protection,

 

US. policy goals, situational awareness, threat information, and local security
instructions have been published by $12 in "SIGINT Reporting in Support of

established for the G8 and G20 Summits on Extended Shared Enterprise Co
(ESECS). See "CASE-2010-99: //FOUO G8 and G20 Summits in Canada
WikiInfo page G8-G20 Canada 2010 has been created for the Summits, and
information may be found at the S1 7 Economics and Global Issues G8/G20 w

(S//REL) CTMMC will be the focal point for 24/7 CT operations, employing
to ensure timely and effective distribution of threat tippers and lead informatio
CT activities related to any threat situation, and to facilitate foreign release re

(C/lREL) S1 11's SCC desk will be responsible for coordinating RF Is and res
NSOC/CRSMM will respond to time critical RFIs after hours. NSOC/CRSM
coordinate drafts of the TIC's twice-daily sitreps. -

  
 
  

posture. Reporting

5-27 June." A
ditional
bsite.

ormal procedures
, to coordinate
ests.

nses, while
will also

 

 

