TOP SECRET/NOFORN 12

not an operational group, but will address policy issues related
to the conduct of operations raised by departments and agencies
or the NSS. (S/NF)

Departments and agencies shall work through the COP~WG to raise
unresolved or ambiguous policy questions in an integrated IPC
meeting of all appropriate national and economic security
stakeholders. The N88 shall use existing channels to elevate
any unresolved policy conflicts to the Deputies and Principals
Committees, as appropriate. (C/NF)

Departments and agencies shall continue to use existing
operational processes for cyber operations, except as those
processes are modified by or under this directive. Other types
of operations that are supported or enabled by cyber operations
shall use their existing operational processes. This continued
use of existing operational processes applies, for example, to
operations conducted under military orders that authorize DCEO
or OCEO, including clandestine preparatory activities. (C/NF)

Departments and agencies, during planning for proposed cyber
operations, shall use established processes6 to coordinate and
deconflict with other organizations ~ including, as appropriate,
State, DOD, DOJ, DHS, members of the IC, and relevant sector~
specific agencies — and obtain any other approvals required
under applicable policies, except as those processes are
modified by or under this directive. Departments and agencies
shall modify or enhance these processes as future circumstances
dictate. (S/NF)

Departments and agencies shall coordinate DCEO and OCEO with
State and Chiefs of Station or their designees in countries
where DCEO or OCEO are conducted or cyber effects are expected
to occur. (S/NF)

Coordination of DCEO and OCEO with network defense efforts shall
be sufficient to enable a whole—of—government approach to the
protection of U.S. national interests and shall identify
potential implications of proposed DCEO and OCEO for U.S.
networks, including potential adversary responses or unintended
consequences of U.S. operations for which the United States
Government or the private sector would need to prepare. This
coordination shall occur in a manner consistent with operational

 

6 Including the May 9, 2007, “Trilateral Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) among

the Department of Defense and the Department of Justice and the Intelligence

Community Regarding Computer Network Attack and Computer Network Exploitation
Activities,” and other operational coordination processes that exist between

departments and agencies. (S/NF)

TOP SECRET/NOFORN

