TOP SECRET/NOFORN 13

security requirements and the protection of intelligence
sources, methods, and activities. (S/NF)
Toward this end of ensuring a unified whole-of—government
approach, departments and agencies shall coordinate and
deconflict DCEO and OCEO with network defense efforts of other
departments and agencies as appropriate. (S/NF)
In addition, DCEO and OCEO with potential implications for
U.S. networks shall be deconflicted as appropriate and
coordinated with DHS, appropriate law enforcement agencies,
and relevant sector—specific agencies. (S/NF)
The United States Government shall make all reasonable efforts
to identify and notify, as appropriate, private sector
entities that could be affected by DCEO and OCEO. (S/NF)

Policy Criteria (U)
Policy deliberations for DCEO and OCEO shall consider, but not

be limited to, the following criteria:
Impact: The potential threat from adversary actions or the
potential benefits, scope, and recommended prioritization of
proposed U.S. operations as compared with other approaches —
including, as appropriate, network defense by the
United States Government or private sector network operators;
Risks: Assessments of intelligence gain or loss, the risk of
retaliation or other impacts on U.S. networks or interests
(including economic), impact on the security and stability of
the Internet, and political gain or loss to include impact on
foreign policies, bilateral and multilateral relationships
(including Internet governance), and the establishment of
unwelcome norms of international behavior;
Methods: The intrusiveness, timeliness, efficiency, capacity,
and effectiveness of operational methods to be employed;
Geography and Identity: Geographic and identity aspects of
the proposed activity, including the location of operations
and the resulting effects, the identity of network owners and
users that will be affected, and the identity or type — when
known — of adversaries to be countered or affected by U.S.
operations;
Transparency: The need for consent or notification of network
or computer owners or host countries, the potential for impact
on U.S. persons and U.S. private sector networks, and the need
for any public or private communications strategies before or
after an operation; and
Authorities and Civil Liberties: The available authorities
and procedures and the potential for cyber effects inside the
United States or against U.S. persons. (S/NF)

 

 

TOP SECRET/NOFORN

