TOP SECRET/NOFORN 3

inhibiting detection or attribution, even if they create cyber
effects. (C/NF)

Defensive Cyber Effects Operations (DCEO): Operations and
related programs or activities — other than network defense or
cyber collection — conducted by or on behalf of the

United States Government, in or through cyberspace, that are
intended to enable or produce cyber effects outside

United States Government networks for the purpose of defending
or protecting against imminent threats or ongoing attacks or
malicious cyber activity against U.S. national interests from
inside or outside cyberspace. (C/NF)

Nonintrusive Defensive Countermeasures (NDCM): The subset of
DCEO that does not require accessing computers, information or
communications systems, or networks without authorization from
the owners or operators of the targeted computers, information
or communications systems, or networks or exceeding authorized
access and only creates the minimum cyber effects needed to
mitigate the threat activity. (C/NF)

Offensive Cyber Effects Operations (OCEO): Operations and
related programs or activities — other than network defense,
cyber collection, or DCEO — conducted by or on behalf of the
United States Government, in or through cyberspace, that are
intended to enable or produce cyber effects outside

United States Government networks. (C/NF)

Cyber Operations: Cyber collection, DCEO (including NDCM),
and OCEO collectively. (U)

Significant Consequences: Loss of life, significant
responsive actions against the United States, significant
damage to property, serious adverse U.S. foreign policy
consequences, or serious economic impact on the United States.
(U)

U.S. National Interests: Matters of vital interest to the
United States to include national security, public safety,
national economic security, the safe and reliable functioning
of “critical infrastructure,” and the availability of “key
resources.”1 (U)

Emergency Cyber Action: A cyber operation undertaken at the
direction of the head of a department or agency with
appropriate authorities who has determined that such action is
necessary, pursuant to the requirements of this directive, to
mitigate an imminent threat or ongoing attack against U.S.
national interests from inside or outside cyberspace and under
circumstances that at the time do not permit obtaining prior

 

 

 

 

1 As these terms are used in HSPD-7 on “Critical Infrastructure,
Identification, Prioritization, and Protection” from December 17, 2003. (U)

TOP SECRET/NOFORN

