TOP SECRET/NOFORN 9

implicates the United States’ inherent right of self—defense
as recognized in international law or the policy review
processes established in this directive and appropriate legal
reviews determine that such consent is not required. (S/NF)

Offensive Cyber Effects Operations (U)
OCEO can offer unique and unconventional capabilities to advance
U.S. national objectives around the world with little or no
warning to the adversary or target and with potential effects
ranging from subtle to severely damaging. The development and
sustainment of OCEO capabilities, however, may require
considerable time and effort if access and tools for a specific
target do not already exist. (TS/NF)
The United States Government shall identify potential targets
of national importance where OCEO can offer a favorable
balance of effectiveness and risk as compared with other
instruments of national power, establish and maintain OCEO
capabilities integrated as appropriate with other 0.5.
offensive capabilities, and execute those capabilities in a
manner consistent with the provisions of this directive.
(TS/NF)

IV. Cyber Operations with Significant Consequences (U)

Specific Presidential approval is required for any cyber
operations — including cyber collection, DCEO, and OCEO —
determined by the head of a department or agency to conduct the
operation to be reasonably likely to result in “significant
consequences” as defined in this directive. This requirement
applies to cyber operations generally, except for those already
approved by the President, even if this directive otherwise does
not pertain to such operations as provided in the “Purpose and
Scope” section of this directive. (S/NF)

V. Threat Response Operations (U)

Responses to Persistent Malicious Cyber Activity (U)
Departments and agencies with appropriate authorities -
consistent with the provisions set forth in this directive and
in coordination with the Departments of State, Defense (DOD),
Justice (DOJ), and Homeland Security; the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI); the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence (DNI); the National Security Agency (NSA); the
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA); the Departments of the
Treasury and Energy (DOE); and other relevant members of the
Intelligence Community (IC) and sector~specific agencies ~ shall
establish criteria and procedures to be approved by the

TOP SECRET/NOFORN

