TOP EEC RETIRE MN DE URN

{TSHREL TD LISA, FVEY] The primary stakeholders for CT exchanges with the
Germans are the European CIyptologic Center {ECC} and the 521 Deployed Analyst {DA
] in Berlin. NSA’s CT meets with the END and Ef'v" quarterly and with the END every
six months at SISECT. The latest analytic exchange was on 4-5 December 2012 in
Berlin. Although previous discussions focused on extremists traveling to Germany and
Central Asia, this latest exchange focused heavily on North .African CT topics, including
key ptesentations from both sides on — CT European tatgets
remain the focus of the relationship with Ef‘v'; however, it is likely that CT North .African
targets will have an expanded focus with END and Ef‘lu-r as North .Africa continues to
serve as a magnet for aspiring Ijihadists from Europe. in addition, future discussions will
likely expand to Europeans traveling to- to fight. in the ongoing-and the threat
they may pose upon return to Europe.

 

{TSHSL’JNF} in addition, EEC hasheen working with the END and Ef'v" on collection as
well as target discovery and development tradecraft. in October 2011, SEC partnered
with ELIELAC and ENDto conduct a demonstration of XKEYSCDRE to the Ef‘v" using
Ef‘v' domestic wan‘anted collection. The END XKEYSCDRE system successfully
processed DSL wiretap collection belonging to a German domestic CT target. .As a result
of this demonstration, the Ef'v" Vice President formally requested the XKEYSCDRE
software from DIRNSA to further' enable the Ef‘v" to achieve its mission goal of
countering terrorist activities in Germany. Ey enhancing Ef'v' ’s internet analytic
capahilities through the provision of XKEYSC DRE. NSA will enable Germany to
provide unique contributions in the form of collection, data summaries, andfor finished
intelligence to the high-priority NSA CT mission. The SPF approving the provision of
XKEYSCDRE to the Ef‘v’ was approved on 25 Match 2013. The Tetms of Reference
related to this effort. is currently with the Germans for signature, which is expected in
mid-April.

(U) Date of Material

TOP EEC RETNS MN DE DRIN'

