NSA planted bugs at Indian missions in D.C., U.N. - The Hindu http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/world/nsa—planted-bug...

1of3

 

  
   

THE 415% HINDU

International » World

 

 

NSA planted bugs at Indian missions in D.C., U.N.

Shobhan Saxena

The NSA selected India’s U.N. office and the embassy as “location target" for infiltrating with hi-tech bugs, which might have given them AP
access to vast quantities of Internet traffic. File photo.

They were penetrated by NSA bugs that can copy entire hard disks

Two of the most important nerve-centres of Indian diplomacy outside the country— the Permanent Mission of India
at the United Nations and the embassy in Washington, DC — were targets of such sophisticated bugs implanted by
the US. National Security Agency (NSA) that entire computer hard disks might have been copied by the American
agency. The UN. Mission building in New York and the embassy premises, including its annex, in Washington were
on a top-secret list of countries and missions — many of them European allies of the US. — chosen for intensive
spying.

According to a top-secret NSA document obtained by The Hindu, the NSA selected India’s U.N. office and the
embassy as “location target" for infiltrating their computers and telephones with hi-tech bugs, which might have
given them access to vast quantities of Internet traffic, e-mails, telephone and office conversations and even official
documents stored digitally.

Since the NSA revelations began in June, U.S. President Barack Obama and other top American officials have all
claimed that the surveillance activities were aimed exclusively at preventing terrorist attacks. But the targeted spying
of Indian diplomatic buildings could have been done for political and commercial reasons — not the core
responsibility of the NSA.

According to the 2010 COMINT (communication intelligence) document about “Close Access SIGADs", the offices of
Indian diplomats and high-ranking military officials stationed at these important posts were targets of four different
kinds of electronic snooping devices:

Lifesaver, which facilitates imaging of the hard drive of computers
Highlands, which makes digital collection from implants

Vagrant, which collects data of open computer screens, and
Magnetic, which is a collection of digital signals

All the Indian “targets” in the list are marked with an asterisk, which, according to the document, means that they
“have either been dropped or are slated to be dropped in the near future." The NSA document doesn’t say when and
how the bugs were implanted or how much of data was lifted from Indian offices, but all of them were on the “target”
list for more than one type of data collection bugs.

10/24/2013 1:39 PM

