NSA planted bugs at Indian missions in DC, U.N. - The Hindu http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/world/nsa—planted-bug...

20f3

Asked by The Hindu, why India’s UN. mission and embassy, which clearly pose no terrorism threat to the US, were
targeted by the NSA, a spokesman for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence said: “The US. government
will respond through diplomatic channels to our partners and allies. While we are not going to comment publicly on
every specific alleged intelligence activity, as a matter of policy we have made clear that the United States gathers
foreign intelligence of the type gathered by all nations. We value our cooperation with all countries on issues of
mutual concern.”

But the spokesman didn’t answer The Hindu’s specific questions about why the top-secret document about spying
on Indian missions shouldn’t be revealed or “reproduced by this newspaper in full or part”.

The document obtained by The Hindu reveals a scary scenario of breach of official secrecy of Indian missions and
violation of privacy of Indian diplomats and other staff working in the three premises that were targeted.

Located between 2nd and 3rd Avenue on 43rd Street in the eastern part of Manhattan, the office of India’s permanent
representative to the UN was on top of the list of Indian targets. Designed by the legendary Indian architect, Charles
Correa, the building with a red granite base and a double-height penthouse porch at the top has the offices of India’s
permanent representative, deputy permanent representative, a minister and political coordinator, six counsellors, a
Colonel-rank military advisor and several other secretaries who look after different areas of India’s engagement with
the world.

It was this building that was the main target of all four NSA bugs: from Lifesaver, which can send to the NSA copies
of everything saved on the hard drives of office computers, to Vagrant, which can pick data straight from computer
screens.

Though emails sent to India’s New York mission have remained unanswered so far, an Indian diplomat told The
Hindu that the NSA eavesdropping might have done “extensive damage” to India’s stand on many international
issues ranging from UN Security Council reforms to peacekeeping operations. “If they could implant bugs inside
communications equipment of European Union office here and tap into their communications cables as well, there is
no reason to believe that they didn’t snoop on us,” said the diplomat, speaking strictly on condition of anonymity. “We
are still assessing the damage. If they managed to copy our hard drives, nothing is left to imagination.”

Second to the UN mission on the “target” list was the chancery building of the Indian Embassy located at 2107,
Massachusetts Avenue in Washington, DC. Consisting of two adjacent buildings, one constructed in 1885 and the
other in 1901, the chancery has offices of the Indian ambassador, the deputy chief of mission, several ministers and
counsellors who head political, economic, defence and industry sections and three Defence Attachés representing
the Indian Army, Air Force and Navy. This building, from where India maintains its diplomatic, trade and strategic ties
with the US, was on the “target” list for three bugs that can make images of hard drives, pick digital signals and
copy data of computer screens.

The third Indian building targeted by the NSA is the embassy annex located on 2536, Massachusetts Avenue in
Washington, DC. The annex has three very important departments: the consular section, headed by a minister, looks
after visa services; the commerce department, also headed by a minister, is involved in a broad range of trade
issues and negotiations besides assisting the Indian businesses; and an office of the Indian Space Research
Organization (ISRO), represented by a counsellor, takes care of cooperation between two countries in the field of
space. This building was on the NSA “target” list for Highlands and Vagrant, which collect data from implants and
computer screens respectively. It’s important to recall here that India’s space programme was targeted by another
NSA tool PRISM, which intercepts and collects actual content on internet and telephone networks (as reported by
The Hindu on Tuesday).

But officials at the Indian embassy claim that the premises are safe. “Adequate measures are in place in this regard
and all steps taken to safeguard the national interest,” wrote an official in an email response to queries by The
Hindu. Though no Indian official was willing to talk on record specifically about the NSA bugs mentioned in the top
secret document, in private they admitted that it’s a violation of all norms and security. “If these bugs were implanted
physically on our machinery, telephones and computers, it means a serious breach in security. Who did that job for
them? It’s very alarming situation. Even if they accessed our data remotely, it is quite a serious matter because we
try to de-bug our systems constantly,” said an Indian diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity.

The document obtained by The Hindu doesn’t say if the bugs were placed physically or if the machines at the Indian
Mission and embassy were targeted through the internet network, bugs similar to those aimed at Indian offices were
actually “implanted” in a commercially available encrypted fax machine used at missions such as that of the
European Union. In a recent expose, The Guardian had revealed that the NSA infiltrated the internal computer
network of several European embassies and the EU to intercept their communications. That had led to a roar of
protests from European capitals.

10/24/2013 1:39 PM

