NSA planted bugs at Indian missions in D.C., U.N. - The Hindu http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/world/nsa—planted-bug...

Alarm bells have been ringing in New Delhi too since July when it was first reported that 38 embassies and
diplomatic missions, including the Indian embassy in Washington, were targeted by the NSA. Reacting to the
reports, the Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Syed Akbaruddin had expressed concern at the “disconcerting”
reports and said that the government would take up the concern with the Americans. But at that time, the Indian
government was neither aware of the fact that the UN mission in New York too was a “target” of NSA bugging nor did
the officials know a thing about the nature and capabilities of the bugs used for snooping on their offices.

The Indian mission to the UN has so far not reacted to either the reports of snooping on foreign missions nor to The
Hindu’s queries sent to its office in New York, but the embassy officials have discussed the issue with their American
counterparts. “Our government has expressed concerns over the reports of monitoring of the Indian Embassy in
Washington, D.C. by US. agencies, and the Embassy in Washington D.C. has raised these concerns with the US.
government,” said an embassy official in an email repose to The Hindu’s queries, without elaborating at what level
and in which meeting the issue was raised or what was the response of American officials.

But the US. officials have already made it clear that they would not “apologise” to anyone for the bugging of foreign
mission, including the Indian embassy and New York office, as shown in NSA documents. “While we’re not going to
comment publicly on the specifics of alleged intelligence activities, as a matter of policy we’ve made clear that the
US. gathers foreign intelligence of the type gathered by all nations,” US. State Department spokesman Patrick
Ventrell had told reporters at his daily news conference on July 2, a day after the spying on European embassies
was revealed for the first time in reports where India was just mentioned in a passing reference.

Keywords: DIA, NSA snooping, US surveillance programme, National Security Agency, Prism, Freedom of
Information Act

3 of 3 10/24/2013 1:39 PM

