RC3 9 - Whatyou should know about operations

 

What you should know about operations

What is an operation

An operation is an investigation to be conducted. An operation contains one or more targets
meaning the physical individuals to be tapped. The Technician assigns one or more agents,
desktop or mobile, to the target. Thus the agent can be installed on a computer or mobile phone.

Assigning the operation to a user group

To guarantee maximum data conﬁdentiality, we recommend you only link an operation to the RC5
users assigned to the investigation. Users not linked to the operation will not see any operation
data or collected evidence. For this reason, the person who creates the operation must be part of
at least one of the groups linked to the operation when created.

What happens when a new operation is created

When an operation is created it is already declared open thus operation targets can be created
and the Technician can generate and install agents. When the operation is open, agents begin to
collect data and send it to RC5.

What happens when an operation is closed

The operation must be closed when the investigation is closed, and it is certain that all agents
have already transmitted all the collected evidence to the Backend.

Closing the operation automatically closes the targets and agents. When an agent is closed,
uninstallation occurs at the first synchronization, leaving the device clean.

A closed operation cannot be re-opened. Only the operation data and collected evidence are left
in the database.

. CAUTION: for infrequent synchronizations, for example, every four days, wait for the iast
planned synchronization before closing the operation.

What you should know about targets

What is a target

A target is the physical person to be investigated. The Technician assigns one or more agents,
desktop or mobile, to the target. Thus the agent can be installed on a computer or mobile phone.

Administrator tasks

The Administrator manages targets on the general organizational level,- the Technician sets and
works on targets according to the Administrator's instructions.

The Administrator is in charge of:

 

Administrator's Guide I ver.1.4 SEP—2013 I RC8 9 I 2013' HTS.r.l. -pag. 30

