RCS 9 - Whatyou should know about user monitoring [Audit]

 

What you should know about user monitoring (Audit)

What is user monitoring

The Audit is a list of actions taken by all Administrator, Technician and Analyst users in RC5. Its
purpose is to guarantee correct investigations and the observance of rules and indications issued
by any authority that requested the investigations.

This way, the Administrator can monitor system access by enabled users and trace special actions
over time such as, for example, target creation.

How signaled actions are read
The Audit records all actions run on the system by each single user in a table.
Four pieces of information are always included in each action:

. action date-time,

. user that performed the action,
0 action type,

. description of the action

The other ﬁelds are only populated according to the type of action. For example, if a user logs into
the system, the Audit records the user's name in Actor and the "login" action type in Action.

If a Technician creates agents, an action appears in the list for each agent with the name of the
user, the "target.create" type of action, the operation name, target name and agent's name.

6 NOTE: : audit records are not localized and only available in English.

Selecting specific actions using filters

The function normally displays actions performed in the last 24 hours. The filter on the Date
column is thus the only filter that is always set by default but can be changed as needed. For this
reason, the corresponding combo box is always selected.

A ﬁlter can be set for all other columns to refine the search. If the combo box next to the heading
is selected, the filter on that column is active.

Each heading thus allows you to select which data should be displayed.

Only the Description column lets you enter part of the text to be searched, for exam pl e, if "log" is
entered, all actions whose descriptions contain the text "log" will be displayed. For example:

"User 'xxx' logged in"
"Log ﬁle created"

Exportable data

RC5 lets you export recorded actions for Administrators, Technicians and Analysts. The ﬁle will be
downloaded to the RC5 Download folder on the desktop.

 

Administrator's Guide I ver.1.4 SE P—2013 I RC8 9 I 2013. HTS.r.l. - pag. 4U

