to employ the analytic tools needed to identify that information—the standard of relevance under
Section 215 is satisﬁed.

Standing alone, “relevant” is a broad term that connotes anything “[b]earing upon,
connected with, [or] pertinent to” a specified subject matter. 13 Oxford English Dictionary 561
(2d ed. 1989). The concept of relevance, however, has developed a particularized legal meaning
in the context of the production of documents and other things in conjunction with official
investigations and legal proceedings. Congress legislated against that legal background in
enacting Section 215 and thus “presumably kn[e]w and adopt[ed] the cluster of ideas that were
attached to [the] word in the body of learning from which it was taken.” See FAA v. Cooper, 132
S. Ct. 1441, 1449 (2012) (internal citation and quotation marks omitted). Indeed, as discussed
above, in identifying the sort of items that may be the subject of a Section 215 order, Congress
expressly referred to items obtainable with “a subpoena duces tecum issued by a court of the
United States in aid of a grand jury investigation” or “any other order issued by a court of the
United States directing the production of records or tangible things,” 50 U.S.C. § 1861(c)(2)(D),
indicating that it was well aware of this legal context when it added the relevance requirement.
That understanding is also reﬂected in the statute’s legislative history. See 152 Cong. Rec. 2426
(2006) (statement of Sen. Kyl) (“Relevance is a simple and well established standard of law.
Indeed, it is the standard for obtaining every other kind of subpoena, including administrative
subpoenas, grand jury subpoenas, and civil discovery orders.”).

It is well-settled in the context of other forms of legal process for the production of
documents that a document is “relevant” to a particular subject matter not only where it directly
bears on that subject matter, but also where it is reasonable to believe that it could lead to other
information that directly bears on that subject matter. In civil discovery, for example, the
Supreme Court has construed the phrase “relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action” “broadly to encompass any matter that bears on, or that reasonably could lead to other
matter that could bear on, any issue that is or may be in the case.” Oppenheimer Fund, Inc. v.
Sanders, 437 US. 340, 351 (1978) (emphasis added); see also Condit v. Dunne, 225 F.R.D. 100,
105 (S.D.N.Y. 2004) (“Although not unlimited, relevance, for purposes of discovery, is an
extremely broad concept.”). A similar standard applies to grand jury subpoenas, which will be
upheld unless “there is no reasonable possibility that the category of materials the Government
seeks will produce information relevant to the general subject of the grand jury’s investigation.”
United States v. R. Enterprises, Inc., 498 US. 292, 301 (1991).6 And the Supreme Court has
explained that a statutory “relevance” limitation on administrative subpoenas, even for
investigations into matters not involving national security threats, is “not especially constraining’
and affords an agency “access to virtually any material that might cast light on the allegations” at
issue in an investigation. EEOC v. Shell Oil Co., 466 US. 54, 68-69 (1984). See also United

5

 

6 One court has noted that the Court’s reference to “category of materials,” rather than to speciﬁc documents,
“contemplates that the district court will assess relevancy based on the broad types of material sought by the
Government,” not by “engaging in a document-by—document [or] line-by—line assessment of relevancy.” In re
Grand Jury Proceedings, 616 F.3d 1186, 1202 (10th Cir. 2010). The court explained that “[i]ncidenta1 production
of irrelevant documents . . . is simply a necessary consequence of the grand jury’s broad investigative powers and
the categorical approach to relevancy adopted in R. Enterprises.” Id. at 1205.

-9-

