authorize the seizure of electronic storage media [and] authorize[] a later review of the media
or information consistent with the warrant.”). 10 These longstanding practices in a variety of legal
arenas demonstrate a broad understanding of the requirement of relevance developed in the
context of investigatory information collection.

It is reasonable to conclude that Congress had that broad concept of relevance in mind
when it incorporated this standard into Section 215. The statutory relevance standard in Section
215, therefore, should be interpreted to be at least as broad as the standard of relevance that has
long governed ordinary civil discovery and criminal and administrative investigations, which
allows the broad collection of records when necessary to identify the directly pertinent
documents. To be sure, the cases that have been decided in these contexts do not involve
collection of data on the scale at issue in the telephony metadata collection program, and the
purpose for which information was sought in these cases was not as expansive in scope as a
nationwide intelligence collection effort designed to identify terrorist threats. While these cases
do not demonstrate that bulk collection of the type at issue here would routinely be permitted in
civil discovery or a criminal or administrative investigation, they do show that the “relevance”
standard affords considerable latitude, where necessary, and depending on the context, to collect
a large volume of data in order to ﬁnd the key bits of information contained within. Moreover,
there are a number of textual and contextual indications that Congress intended Section 215 to
embody an even more ﬂexible standard that takes into account the uniquely important purposes
of the statute, the factual environment in which national security investigations take place, and
the special facets of the statutory scheme in which Section 215 is embedded.

First, Section 215’s standard on its face is particularly broad, because the Government
need only show that there are “reasonable grounds to believe” that the records sought are
relevant to an authorized investigation. 50 U.S.C. § 1861(b)(2)(A). That phrase reﬂects
Congress’s understanding that Section 215 permits a particularly broad scope for production of
records in connection with an authorized national security investigation.

Second, unlike, for example, civil discovery rules, which limit discovery to those matters
“relevant to the subject matter involved in the action,” Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(b)(1), Section 215
requires only that the documents be relevant to an “authorized investigation.” 50 U.S.C.

 

10 See, e.g., United States v. Hill, 459 F.3d 966, 975 (9th Cir. 2006) (recognizing that “blanket seizure” of the
defendant’s entire computer system, followed by subsequent review, may be permissible if explanation as to why it
is necessary is provided); United States v. Upham, 168 F.3d 532, 535 (1st Cir. 1999) (explaining that “the seizure
and subsequent off-premises search of the computer and all available disks was about the narrowest definable search
and seizure reasonably likely to obtain the images” and that “[a] sufficient chance of finding some needles in the
computer haystack was established by the probable-cause showing in the warrant application”).

11 Some Members of Congress opposed Section 215 because in their View it afforded too broad a standard for
collection of information. See, e. g., 152 Cong. Rec. 2422 (2006) (statement of Sen. Feingold) (“[T]he deal would
allow subpoenas in instances when there are reasonable grounds for simply believing that information is relevant to
a terrorism investigation. That is an extremely low bar.”); 156 Cong. Rec. 82108-01 (2010) (statement of Sen.
Wyden) (“‘Relevant’ is an incredibly broad standard. In fact, it could potentially permit the Government to collect
the personal information of large numbers of law-abiding Americans who have no connection to terrorism
whatsoever.”)

-11-

