§ 1861(b)(2)(A) (emphasis added). This includes not only information directly relevant to the
authorized object of the investigation—i.e., “foreign intelligence information” or “international
terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities”—but also information relevant to the
investigative process or methods employed in reasonable furtherance of such national security
investigations. In the particular circumstance in which the collection of communications
metadata in bulk is necessary to enable discovery of otherwise hidden connections between
individuals suspected of engaging in terrorist activity, the metadata records are relevant to the
FBI’s “investigation[s]” to which those connections relate. Notably, Congress specifically
rejected proposals to limit the relevance standard so that it would encompass only records
pertaining to individuals suspected of terrorist activity. 12

Third, unlike most civil or criminal discovery or administrative inquiries, these
investigations often focus on preventing threats to national security from causing harm, not on
the retrospective determination of liability or guilt for prior activities. The basic purpose of
Section 215, after all, is to provide a tool for discovering and thwarting terrorist plots and other
national security threats that may not be known to the Government at the outset. For that reason,
Congress recognized that in collecting records potentially “relevant to an authorized
investigation” under Section 215, the FBI would not be limited to records known with certainty,
or even with a particular level of statistical probability, to contain information that directly bears
on a terrorist plot or national security threat. Rather, for Section 215 to be effective in advancing
its core objective, the FBI must have the authority to collect records that, when subjected to
reasonable and proven investigatory techniques, can produce information that will help the
Government to identify previously unknown operatives and thus to prevent terrorist attacks
before they succeed.

Fourth, and relatedly, unlike ordinary criminal investigations, the sort of national security
investigations with which Section 215 is concerned often have a remarkable breadth—spanning
long periods of time, multiple geographic regions, and numerous individuals, whose identities
are often unknown to the intelligence community at the outset. The investigative tools needed to
combat those threats must be deployed on a correspondingly broad scale. In this context, it is not
surprising that Congress enacted a statute with a standard that enables the FBI to seek certain

 

12 See S. 2369, 109th Cong. § 3 (2006) (requiring Government to demonstrate relevance of records sought to agents
of foreign powers, including terrorist organizations, or their activities or contacts); 152 Cong. Rec. 81598-03 (2006)
(statement of Sen. Levin) (“The Senate bill required a showing that the records sought were not only relevant to an
investigation but also either pertained to a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power, which term includes
terrorist organizations, or were relevant to the activities of a suspected agent of a foreign power who is the subject of
an authorized investigation or pertained to an individual in contact with or known to be a suspected agent. In other
words, the order had to be linked to some suspected individual or foreign power. Those important protections are
omitted in the bill before us.”); 152 Cong. Rec. H581-02 (2006) (statement of Rep. Nadler) (“The conference report
does not restore the section 505 previous standard of speciﬁc and articulable facts connecting the records sought to a
suspected terrorist. It should”); 151 Cong. Rec. 814275-01 (2005) (statement of Sen. Dodd) (“Unfortunately, the
conference report differs from the Senate version as it maintains the minimal standard of relevance without a
requirement of fact connecting the records sought, or the individual, suspected of terrorist activity. Additionally, the
conference report does not impose any limit on the breadth of the records that can be requested or how long these
records can be kept by the Govemment.”).

-12-

