records in bulk where necessary to identify connections between individuals suspected to be
involved in terrorism.

Fifth, Congress built into the statutory scheme protections not found in the other legal
contexts to help ensure that even an appropriately broad construction of the “relevance”
requirement will not lead to misuse of the authority. Section 215, unlike the rules governing
civil discovery or grand jury subpoenas, always requires prior judicial approval of the
Govemment’s assertion that particular records meet the relevance requirement and the other
legal prerequisites. Once the information is produced, the Government can retain and
disseminate the information only in accordance with minimization procedures reported to and
approved by the Court. See 50 U.S.C. § 1861(g). The entire process is subject to active
congressional oversight. See, e. g., id. § 1862. Although Congress certainly intended the
Government to make a threshold showing of relevance before obtaining information under
Section 215, these more robust protections regarding collection, retention, dissemination, and
oversight provide additional mechanisms for promoting responsible use of the authority.

In light of these features of Section 215, and the broad understanding of “relevance,” the
telephony metadata collection program meets the Section 215 “relevance” standard. There
clearly are “reasonable grounds to believe” that this category of data, when queried and analyzed
by the NSA consistent with the Court-imposed standards, will produce information pertinent to
FBI investigations of international terrorism, and it is equally clear that NSA’s analytic tools
require the collection and storage of a large volume of metadata in order to accomplish this
objective. As noted above, NSA employs a multi-tiered process of analyzing the data in an effort
to identify otherwise unknown connections between telephone numbers associated with known
or suspected terrorists and other telephone numbers, and to analyze those connections in a way
that can help identify terrorist operatives or networks. That process is not feasible unless NSA
analysts have access to telephony metadata in bulk, because they cannot know which of the
many phone numbers might be connected until they conduct the analysis. The results of the
analysis ultimately can assist in discovering whether known or suspected terrorists have been in
contact with other persons who may be engaged in terrorist activities, including persons and
activities inside the United States. If not collected and held by the NSA, telephony metadata
may not continue to be available for the period of time (currently ﬁve years) deemed appropriate
for national security purposes because telecommunications service providers are not typically
required to retain it for this length of time. Unless the data is aggregated, it may not be feasible
to identify chains of communications that cross different telecommunications networks.
Although NSA is exploring whether certain functions could be performed by the
telecommunications service providers, doing so may not be possible without signiﬁcant
additional investment and new statutes or regulations requiring providers to preserve and format
the records and render necessary technical assistance.

The national security objectives advanced by the telephony metadata program would
therefore be frustrated if the NSA were limited to collection of a narrower set of records. In
particular, a more restrictive collection of telephony metadata would impede the ability to
identify a chain of contacts between telephone numbers, including numbers served by different
telecommunications service providers, signiﬁcantly curtailing the usefulness of the tool. This is
therefore not a case in which a broad collection of records provides only a marginal increase in

-13-

