the amount of useful information generated by the program. Losing the ability to conduct
focused queries on bulk metadata would significantly diminish the effectiveness of NSA’s
investigative tools. As discussed above, the broad meaning of the relevance standard that
Congress incorporated into Section 215 encompasses, in this particular circumstance, collection
of a repository of information without which the Government might not be able to identify
specific information that bears directly on a counterterrorism investigation. For that reason, the
telephony metadata records are “relevant” to an authorized investigation of international
terrorism.

This conclusion does not mean that the scope of Section 215 is boundless and authorizes
the FISC to order the production of every type of business record in bulk—including medical
records or library or book sale records, for example. As noted above, the Supreme Court has
explained that determining the appropriate scope of a subpoena for the production of records
“cannot be reduced to formula; for relevancy and adequacy or excess in the breadth of [a]
subpoena are matters variable in relation to the nature, purposes and scope of the inquiry.” Okla.
Press Pub. Co. v. Walling, 327 US. 186, 209 (1946). In other contexts, the FISC might not
conclude that collection of records in bulk meets the “relevance” standard because of the nature
of the records at issue and the extent to which collecting such records in large volumes is
necessary in order to produce information pertinent to investigations of international terrorism.
For example, the Govemment’s ability to analyze telephony metadata, including through the
techniques discussed above, to discover connections between individuals fundamentally
distinguishes such data from medical records or library records. Although an identified suspect’s
medical history might be relevant to an investigation of that individual, searching an aggregate
database of medical records—which do not interconnect to one another—would not typically
enable the Government to identify otherwise unknown relationships among individuals and
organizations and therefore to ascertain information about terrorist networks. Moreover, given
the frequent use of the international telephone system by terrorist networks and organizations,
analysis of telephony metadata in bulk is a potentially important means of identifying terrorist
operatives, particularly those persons who may be plotting terrorist attacks within the United
States. Although there could be individual contexts in which the Government has an interest in
obtaining medical records or library records for counterterrorism purposes, these categories of
data are not in general comparable to communications metadata as a means of identifying
previously unknown terrorist operatives or networks. The potential need for communications
metadata is both persistent and pervasive across numerous counterterrorism investigations in a
way that is not applicable to many other types of data. Communications metadata therefore
presents a context in which using sophisticated analytic tools can be important to many
investigations of international terrorism, and the use of those tools in turn requires collection of a
large volume of data to be effective.

Under the telephony metadata program, the statutory requirement for judicial
authorization serves as a check to focus Government investigations only on that information
most likely to facilitate an authorized investigation. Under the FISC’s orders, the amount of
metadata actually reviewed by the Government is narrow. As noted above, those orders require,
among other things, that NSA analysts have reasonable, articulable suspicion that the seed
identiﬁers, such as telephone numbers, they submit to query the data are associated with speciﬁc
foreign terrorist organizations that have previously been identiﬁed to and approved by the Court.

-14-

