The vast majority of the telephony metadata is never seen by any person because it is not
responsive to the limited queries that are authorized. But the information that is generated in
response to these limited queries could be especially signiﬁcant in helping the Government
identify and disrupt terrorist plots. Thus, while the relevance standard provides the Government
with broad authority to collect data that is necessary to conduct authorized investigations, the
FISC’s orders require that the data will be substantively queried only for that authorized purpose.
That is the balanced scheme that Congress adopted when it joined the broad relevance standard
with the requirement for judicial approval set forth in Section 215.

Indeed, given the rigorous protections imposed by the FISC, even if the statutory
standard were not “relevance” as the term has been used in analogous legal contexts, but rather
the Fourth Amendment reasonableness standard that the Supreme Court has adopted for searches
not predicated on individualized suspicion, the telephony metadata program would be lawful.
(For the reasons discussed below, the Fourth Amendment’s reasonableness requirement does not
apply in this context because individuals have no reasonable expectation of privacy in the
telephony metadata records collected from providers under the program, see pp. 19-21, infra, but
for present purposes we assume contrary to the facts that such a reasonable expectation exists.)
The Supreme Court has held that “where a Fourth Amendment intrusion serves special
government needs, beyond the normal need for law enforcement, it is necessary to balance the
individual’s privacy expectations against the Govemment’s interests to determine whether it is
impractical to require a warrant or . . . individualized suspicion in the particular context.” Nat’l
Treas. Employees Union v. Von Raab, 489 US. 656, 665-66 (1989). As noted above, the
telephony metadata collected under Section 215 does not include the private content of any
person’s telephone calls, or who places or answers the calls, but only technical data, such as
information concerning the numbers dialed and the time and duration of the calls. Even if there
were an individual privacy interest in such telephony metadata under the Fourth Amendment, it
would be limited, and any infringement on that interest would be substantially mitigated by the
judicially approved restrictions on accessing and disseminating the data. See Board of Educ. of
Indep. School Dist. No. 92 of Pottawatomie County v. Earls, 536 US 822, 833 (2002) (ﬁnding
that restrictions on access to drug testing information lessened testing program’s intrusion on
privacy). On the other side of the scale, the interest of the Government—and the broader
public—in discovering and tracking terrorist operatives and thwarting terrorist attacks is a
national security concern of overwhelming importance. See Haig v. Agee, 453 US. 280, 307
(1981) (“It is obvious and unarguable that no governmental interest is more compelling than the
security of the Nation.”) (internal quotation marks omitted); see also In re Directives, 551 F.3d
1004, 1012 (FISC-R 2008) (“Here, the relevant governmental interest—the interest in national
security—is of the highest order of magnitude.”). Moreover, the telephony metadata collection
program is, at the very least, “a reasonably effective means of addressing” the Govemment’s
national security needs in this context. Earls, 536 US. at 837. Thus, even if the appropriate
standard for the telephony metadata collection program were not relevance, but rather a Fourth
Amendment reasonableness analysis, the Govemment’s interest is compelling and immediate,
the intrusion on privacy interests is limited, and the collection is a reasonably effective means of
detecting and monitoring terrorist operatives and thereby obtaining information important to FBI
investigations.

-15-

