4. Prospective Orders. Section 215 authorizes the FISC to issue orders to produce
telephony metadata records prospectively. Nothing in the text of the statute suggests that FISC
orders may relate only to records previously created. The fact that the requested information has
not yet been created at the time of the application, and that its production is requested on an
ongoing basis, does not affect the basic character of the information as “documents,” “records,”
or other “tangible things” subject to production under the statute. Nor do the orders require the
creation or preservation of documents that would otherwise not exist. Section 215 orders are not
being used to compel a telecommunications service provider to retain information that the
provider would otherwise discard, because the telephony metadata records are routinely
maintained by the providers for at least eighteen months in the ordinary course of business
pursuant to Federal Communications Commission regulations. See 47 C.F.R. § 42.6. In this
context, the continued existence of the records and their continuing relevance to an international
terrorism investigation will not change over the 90-day life of a FISC order.

Prospective production of records has been deemed appropriate in other analogous
contexts. For example, courts have held that the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure give a court
the “authority to order [the] respondent to produce materials created after the return date of the
subpoena.” Chevron v. Salazar, 275 F.R.D. 437, 449 (S.D.N.Y 2011); see also United States v.
I.B.M., 83 F.R.D. 92, 96 (S.D.N.Y. 1979). Other courts have held that, under the Stored
Communications Act, because the statute does not “limit the ongoing disclosure of records to the
Government as soon as they are created,” the Government may seek prospective disclosure of
records. See, e. g., In re Application for an Order Authorizing the Use of Two Pen Register and
Trap and Trace Devices, 632 F. Supp. 2d 202, 207 n.8 (E.D.N.Y. 2008) (“prospective . . .
information sought by the Government . . . becomes a ‘historical record’ as soon as it is recorded
by the provider.”). Neither Section 215 nor any other part of the FISA statutory scheme
prohibits the ongoing production of business records that are generated on a daily basis to the
Government soon after they are created. Nor is there any legislative history indicating that
Congress intended to prevent courts from issuing prospective orders under Section 215 in these
circumstances.

This type of prospective order also provides efficient administration for all parties
involved—the Court, the Government, and the provider. There is little doubt that the
Government could seek a new order on a daily basis for the records created within the last 24
hours. But the creation and processing of such requests would impose entirely unnecessary
burdens on both the Court and the Govemment—and no new information would be anticipated
in such a short period of time to alter the basis of the Govemment’s request or the facts upon
which the Court has based its order. Providers would also be forced to review daily requests of
differing docket numbers, rather than merely complying with one ongoing request, which would
be more onerous on the providers and raise potential and unnecessary compliance issues.
Importantly, the FISC orders do not allow the Government to receive this information in
perpetuity: the 90-day renewal requires the Government to make continuing justiﬁcations for the
business records on a routine basis. Therefore, the prospective orders merely ensure that the
records can be sought in a reasonable manner for a reasonable period of time while avoiding
unreasonable and burdensome paperwork.

-16-

