B. Congressional Reauthorizations

The telephony metadata collection program satisﬁes the plain text and basic purposes of
Section 215 (as well as the Constitution, see infra pp. 20-24) and is therefore lawful. But to the
extent there is any question as to the program’s compliance with the statute, it is signiﬁcant that,
after information concerning the telephony metadata collection program carried out under the
authority of Section 215 was made available to Members of Congress, Congress twice
reauthorized Section 215. When Congress reenacts a statute without change, it is presumed to
have adopted the administrative or judicial interpretation of the statute if it is aware of the
interpretation. See Lorillard v. Pans, 434 US. 575, 580 (1978). The FISC’s conclusion that
Section 215 authorized the collection of telephony metadata in bulk was classified and not
publicly known. However, it is important to the legal analysis of the statute that the Congress
was on notice of this program and the legal authority for it when the statute was reauthorized.

Although the proceedings before the FISC are classified, Congress has enacted legislation
to ensure that its members are aware of signiﬁcant interpretations of law by the FISC. FISA
requires “the Attorney General [to] submit to the [Senate and House Intelligence and Judiciary
Committees] . . . a summary of significant legal interpretations of this chapter involving matters
before the [FISC or Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review (FISCR)], including
interpretations presented in applications or pleadings ﬁled with the [FISC or FISCR] by the
Department of Justice and . . . copies of all decisions, orders, or opinions of the [FISC or FISCR]
that include signiﬁcant construction or interpretation of the provisions of this chapter.” 50
U.S.C. § 1871(a). The Executive Branch not only complied with this requirement with respect to
the telephony metadata collection program, it also worked to ensure that all Members of
Congress had access to information about this program and the legal authority for it. Congress
was thus on notice of the FISC’s interpretation of Section 215, and with that notice, twice
extended Section 215 without change.

In December 2009, DO] worked with the Intelligence Community to provide a classiﬁed
briefing paper to the House and Senate Intelligence Committees that could be made available to
all Members of Congress regarding the telephony metadata collection program. A letter
accompanying the briefing paper sent to the House Intelligence Committee speciﬁcally stated
that “it is important that all Members of Congress have access to information about this
program” and that “making this document available to all members of Congress is an effective
way to inform the legislative debate about reauthorization of Section 215.” See Letter from
Assistant Attorney General Ronald Weich to the Honorable Silvestre Reyes, Chairman, House
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (Dec. 14, 2009). Both Intelligence Committees
made this document available to all Members of Congress prior to the February 2010
reauthorization of Section 215. See Letter from Sen. Diane Feinstein and Sen. Christopher S.
Bond to Colleagues (Feb. 23, 2010); Letter from Rep. Silvestre Reyes to Colleagues (Feb. 24,
2010); see also 156 Cong. Rec. H838 (daily ed. Feb. 25, 2010) (statement of Rep. Hastings); 156
Cong. Rec. S2109 (daily ed. Mar. 25, 2010) (statement of Sen. Wyden) (“[T]he Attorney General
and the Director of National Intelligence have prepared a classified paper that contains details
about how some of the Patriot Act’s authorities have actually been used, and this paper is now
available to all members of Congress, who can read it in the Intelligence Committee’s secure
ofﬁce spaces. I would certainly encourage all of my colleagues to come down to the Intelligence

-17-

