Committee and read it.”). That brieﬁng paper, which has since been released to the public in
redacted form, explained that the Government and the FISC had interpreted Section 215 to
authorize the collection of telephony metadata in bulk. 13

Additionally, the classiﬁed use of this authority has been briefed numerous times over the
years to the Senate and House Intelligence and Judiciary Committees, including in connection
with reauthorization efforts. Several Members of Congress have publicly acknowledged that the
Executive Branch extensively briefed these committees on the telephony metadata collection
program and that, beyond what is required by law, the Executive Branch also made available to
all Members of Congress information about this program and its operation under Section 215.14
Moreover, in early 2007, the Department of Justice began providing all significant FISC
pleadings and orders related to this program to the Senate and House Intelligence and Judiciary
committees. By December 2008, all four committees had received the initial application and
primary order authorizing the telephony metadata collection. Thereafter, all pleadings and orders
reﬂecting signiﬁcant legal developments regarding the program were produced to all four
committees.

After receiving the classiﬁed briefing papers, which were expressly designed to inform
Congress’ deliberations on reauthorization of Section 215, Congress twice reauthorized this
statutory provision, in 2010 and again in 2011. These circumstances provide further support to
the FISC’s interpretation of Section 215 as authorizing orders directing the production of
telephony metadata records in bulk, as well as the Executive Branch’s administrative
construction of the statute to the same effect. See Shell Oil Co., 466 US. at 69 (“Congress
undoubtedly was aware of the manner in which the courts were construing the concept of
‘relevance’ and implicitly endorsed it by leaving intact the statutory deﬁnition of the

 

13 An updated version of the brieﬁng paper, also recently released in redacted form to the public, was provided to
the Senate and House Intelligence Committees again in February 2011 in connection with the reauthorization that
occurred later that year. See letter from Assistant Attorney General Ronald Weich to the Honorable Dianne

F einstein and the Honorable Saxby Chambliss, Chairman and Vice Chairman, Senate Select Committee on
Intelligence (Feb. 2, 2011); letter from Assistant Attorney General Ronald Weich to the Honorable Mike Rogers
and the Honorable C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Chairman and Ranking Minority Member, House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence (Feb. 2, 2011). The Senate Intelligence Committee made this updated paper available to
all Senators later that month. See letter from Sen. Diane Feinstein and Sen. Saxby Chambliss to Colleagues (Feb. 8,
2011)

14 See, e.g., Press Release of Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, F einstein, Chambliss Statement on NSA
Phone Records Program (June 6, 2013) (“The executive branch’s use of this authority has been briefed extensively
to the Senate and House Intelligence and Judiciary Committees, and detailed information has been made available to
all members of Congress prior to each reauthorization of this law.”); How Disclosed NSA Programs Protect
Americans, and Why Disclosure Aids Our Adversaries: Hearing Before the H. Permanent Select Comm. on
Intelligence, 113 Cong. (2013) (statements of Rep. Rogers and Rep. Ruppersberger, Chair and Ranking Member, H.
Permanent Select Comm. on Intelligence) (conﬁrming extensive executive branch briefings for HPSCI on the
telephony metadata collection program); Michael McAuliff & Sabrina Siddiqui, Harry Reid: If lawmakers Don’t
know about NSA Surveillance, It’s Their Fault, Hufﬁngton Post, June 11, 2013, available at
www.huﬁ‘ingtonpost.com/2013/06/I I/harry-reid—nsa_n_3423393.html (quoting Sen. Reid) (“For senators to
complain that ‘I didn’t know this was happening,’ we’ve had many, many meetings . . . that members have been
invited to. . . . [T]hey’ve had every opportunity to be aware of these programs”)

-18-

