BULK COLLECTION OF TELEPHONY METADATA
UNDER SECTION 215 OF THE USA PATRIOT ACT

This white paper explains the Government’s legal basis for an intelligence collection
program under which the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) obtains court orders directing
certain telecommunications service providers to produce telephony metadata in bulk. The bulk
metadata is stored, queried and analyzed by the National Security Agency (NSA) for
counterterrorism purposes. The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (“the FISC” or “the
Court”) authorizes this program under the “business records” provision of the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), 50 U.S.C. § 1861, enacted as section 215 of the USA
PATRIOT Act (Section 215). The Court ﬁrst authorized the program in 2006, and it has since
been renewed thirty-four times under orders issued by fourteen different FISC judges. This
paper explains why the telephony metadata collection program, subject to the restrictions
imposed by the Court, is consistent with the Constitution and the standards set forth by Congress
in Section 215. Because aspects of this program remain classified, there are limits to what can
be said publicly about the facts underlying its legal authorization. This paper is an effort to
provide as much information as possible to the public concerning the legal authority for this
program, consistent with the need to protect national security, including intelligence sources and
methods. While this paper summarizes the legal basis for the program, it is not intended to be an
exhaustive analysis of the program or the legal arguments or authorities in support of it.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Under the telephony metadata collection program, telecommunications service
providers, as required by court orders issued by the FISC, produce to the Government certain
information about telephone calls, principally those made within the United States and between
the United States and foreign countries. This information is limited to telephony metadata,
which includes information about what telephone numbers were used to make and receive the
calls, when the calls took place, and how long the calls lasted. Importantly, this information does
not include any information about the content of those calls—the Government cannot, through
this program, listen to or record any telephone conversations.

This telephony metadata is important to the Government because, by analyzing it, the
Government can determine whether known or suspected terrorist operatives have been in contact
with other persons who may be engaged in terrorist activities, including persons and activities
within the United States. The program is carefully limited to this purpose: it is not lawful for
anyone to query the bulk telephony metadata for any purpose other than counterterrorism, and
Court-imposed rules strictly limit all such queries. The program includes internal oversight
mechanisms to prevent misuse, as well as external reporting requirements to the FISC and
Congress.

Multiple FISC judges have found that Section 215 authorizes the collection of telephony
metadata in bulk. Section 215 permits the FBI to seek a court order directing a business or other
entity to produce records or documents when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
information sought is relevant to an authorized investigation of international terrorism. Courts
have held in the analogous contexts of civil discovery and criminal and administrative

