Even if a subscriber subjectively intends to keep the numbers dialed secret, the Court held, “a
person has no legitimate expectation of privacy in information he voluntarily turns over to third
parties.” Id. at 743-44. The Court explained that someone who uses a phone has “voluntarily
conveyed numerical information to the telephone company and ‘exposed’ that information to its
equipment in the ordinary course of business,” and therefore has “assumed the risk that the
company would reveal to the police the numbers [] dialed.” Id. at 744.

Although the telephony metadata obtained through Section 215 includes, in addition to
the numbers dialed, the length and time of the calls and other similar dialing, routing, addressing,
or signaling information, under the reasoning adopted by the Supreme Court in Smith, there is no
reasonable expectation of privacy in such information, which is routinely collected by
telecommunications service providers for billing and fraud detection purposes. Under
longstanding Supreme Court precedent, this conclusion holds even if there is an understanding
that the third party will treat the information as confidential. See, e. g., SEC v. Jerry T. O’Brien,
Inc., 467 US. 735, 743 (1984); United States v. Miller, 425 US. 435, 443 (1976) (“This Court
has held repeatedly that the Fourth Amendment does not prohibit the obtaining of information
revealed to a third party and conveyed by him to Government authorities, even if the information
is revealed on the assumption that it will be used only for a limited purpose and the conﬁdence
placed in the third party will not be betrayed.”) (emphasis added). Nothing in United States v.
Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945 (2012), changed that understanding of the Fourth Amendment. The
Court’s decision in that case concerned only whether physically attaching a GPS tracking device
to an automobile to collect information was a Fourth Amendment search or seizure. The
telephony metadata collection program does not involve tracking locations from which telephone
calls are made, and does not involve physical trespass. See United States v. Anderson-Bagshaw,
2012 WL 774964, at *2 (ND. Ohio. Mar. 8, 2012) (“The [Jones] majority limited its analysis to
the trespassory nature of the GPS installation, refusing to establish some point at which
uninterrupted surveillance might become constitutionally problematic.”).

The scope of the program does not alter the conclusion that the collection of telephony
metadata under a Section 215 court order is consistent with the Fourth Amendment. Collection
of telephony metadata in bulk from telecommunications service providers under the program
does not involve searching the property of persons making telephone calls. And the volume of
records does not convert that activity into a search. Further, Fourth Amendment rights “are
personal in nature, and cannot bestow vicarious protection on those who do not have a
reasonable expectation of privacy in the place to be searched.” Steagald v. United States, 451
US. 204, 219 (1981); accord, e.g., Rakas v. Illinois, 439 US. 128, 133-34 (1978) (“Fourth
Amendment rights are personal rights which . . . may not be vicariously asserted.’”) (quoting
Alderman v. United States, 394 US. 165, 174 (1969)). Because the Fourth Amendment bestows
“a personal right that must be invoked by an individual,” a person “claim[ing] the protection of
the Fourth Amendment . . . must demonstrate that he personally has an expectation of privacy in
the place searched, and that his expectation is reasonable.” Minnesota v. Carter, 525 US. 83, 88
(1998). No Fourth Amendment-protected interest is generated by virtue of the fact that the
telephony metadata records of many individuals are collected rather than those of a single
individual. Cf. In re Grand Jury Proceedings, 827 F.2d at 305 (rejecting a money transfer
business’ argument that a subpoena for records of all transfers made from a certain office was

-20-

