unreasonable and overbroad under the Fourth Amendment because it “may make available to the
grand jury records involving hundreds of innocent people”).

Even if one were to assume arguendo that the collection of telephony metadata involved
a “search” within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment, for the reasons discussed above (see p.
15, supra), that search would satisfy the reasonableness standard that the Supreme Court has
established in its cases authorizing the Government to conduct large-scale, but minimally
intrusive, suspicionless searches. That standard requires a balancing of “the promotion of
legitimate Governmental interests against the degree to which [the search] intrudes upon an
individual’s privacy.” Maryland v. King, 133 S. Ct. 1958, 1970 (2013) (internal citation and
quotation marks omitted). Such a balance of interests overwhelmingly favors the Government in
this context. If any Fourth Amendment privacy interest were implicated by collection of
telephony metadata, which does not include the content of any conversations, it would be
minimal. Moreover, the intrusion on that interest would be substantially reduced by judicial
orders providing that the data may be examined by an NSA analyst only when there is a
“reasonable, articulable suspicion” that the seed identifier that is proposed for querying the data
is associated with a specific foreign terrorist organization previously approved by the Court.
Indeed, as the program has been conducted, only an exceedingly small fraction of the data
collected has ever been seen—a fact that weighs heavily in the Fourth Amendment calculus.
See, e. g., id. at 1979 (relying on safeguards that limited DNA analysis to identiﬁcation
information alone, without revealing any private information, as reducing any intrusion into
privacy); Vernonia School District 47.] v. Acton, 515 US. 646, 658 (1995) (ﬁnding it significant
that urine testing of student athletes looked only for certain drugs, not for any medical
conditions, as reducing any intrusion on privacy).

On the other side of the balance, there is an exceptionally strong public interest in the
prevention of terrorist attacks, and telephony metadata analysis can be an important part of
achieving that objective. This interest does not merely entail “ordinary crime-solving,” King,
133 S. Ct. at 1982 (Scalia, J ., dissenting), but rather the forward-looking prevention of the loss of
life, including potentially on a catastrophic scale. Given that exceedingly important objective,
and the minimal, if any, Fourth Amendment intrusion that the program entails, the program
would be constitutional even if the Fourth Amendment’s reasonableness standard applied.

B. First Amendment

The telephony metadata collection is also consistent with the First Amendment. It merits
emphasis again in this context that the program does not collect the content of any
communications and that the data may be queried only when the Government has a reasonable,
articulable suspicion that a particular number is associated with a speciﬁc foreign terrorist
organization. Section 215, moreover, expressly prohibits the collection of records for an
investigation that is being conducted solely on the basis of protected First Amendment activity, if
the investigation is of a US. person. The FBI is also prohibited under applicable Attorney
General guidelines from predicating an investigation solely on the basis of activity protected by
the First Amendment. The Court-imposed rules that restrict the Govemment’s queries to those
based on terrorist-associated seed identifiers and preclude indiscriminate use of the telephony

-21-

