metadata substantially mitigate any First Amendment concerns arising from the breadth of the
collection.

In any event, otherwise lawful investigative activities conducted in good faith—that is,
not for the purpose of deterring or penalizing activity protected by the First Amendment—do not
violate the First Amendment. See, e. g., Reporters Comm. for Freedom of the Press v. AT&T,
593 F.2d 1030, 1051 (DC. Cir. 1978) (First Amendment protects activities “subject to the
general and incidental burdens that arise from good faith enforcement of otherwise valid criminal
and civil laws that are not themselves” directed at First Amendment conduct) (emphasis added);
United States v. Aguilar, 883 F.2d 662, 705 (9th Cir. 1989) (“use of undercover informants to
inﬁltrate an organization engag[ed] in protected ﬁrst amendment activities” must be part of an
investigation “conducted in good faith; i.e., not for the purpose of abridging first amendment
freedoms”). The Govemment’s collection of telephony metadata in support of investigative
efforts against specific foreign terrorist organizations are not aimed at curtailing any First
Amendment activities, whether free speech or associational activities. Rather, the collection is in
furtherance of the compelling national interest in identifying and tracking terrorist operatives and
ultimately in thwarting terrorist attacks, particularly against the United States. It therefore
satisﬁes any “good faith” requirement for purposes of the First Amendment. See Reporters
Comm., 593 F.2d at 1052 (“[T]he Govemment’s good faith inspection of defendant telephone
companies’ toll call records does not infringe on plaintiffs’ First Amendment rights, because that
Amendment guarantees no freedom from such investigation.”)

Nor does the Government’s collection and targeted analysis of metadata violate the First
Amendment because of an asserted “chilling effect” on First Amendment-protected speech or
association. The Supreme Court has held that an otherwise constitutionally reasonable search of
international mail, though not based on probable cause or a warrant, does not impermissibly chill
the exercise of First Amendment rights, at least where regulations preclude the Government from
reading the content of any correspondence without a warrant. See United States v. Ramsey, 431
U.S. 606, 623-24 (1977) (noting that because envelopes are opened at the border only when
customs ofﬁcers have reason to suspect they contain something other than correspondence, and
reading of correspondence is forbidden absent a warrant, any “chill” that might exist is both
minimal and subjective and there is no infringement of First Amendment rights). Similarly, the
bulk telephony metadata is queried only where there is a reasonable, articulable suspicion that
the identifier used to query the data is associated with a particular foreign terrorist organization,
and the program does not involve the collection of any content, let alone the review of such
content.

The Executive Branch and the FISC have enacted strict oversight standards to guard
against any potential for misuse of the data, and mandatory reporting to the FISC and Congress
are designed to make certain that, when significant compliance problems are identiﬁed, they are
promptly addressed with the active engagement of all three branches of Government. This
system of checks and balances guarantees that the telephony metadata is not used to inﬁinge
First Amendment protected rights while also ensuring that it remains available to the
Government to use for one of its most important responsibilities—protecting its people from
international terrorism.

-22-

