investigations that “relevance” is a broad standard that permits discovery of large volumes of
data in circumstances where doing so is necessary to identify much smaller amounts of
information within that data that directly bears on the matter being investigated. Although broad
in scope, the telephony metadata collection program meets the “relevance” standard of Section
215 because there are “reasonable grounds to believe” that this category of data, when queried
and analyzed consistent with the Court-approved standards, will produce information pertinent to
FBI investigations of international terrorism, and because certain analytic tools used to
accomplish this objective require the collection and storage of a large volume of telephony
metadata. This does not mean that Section 215 authorizes the collection and storage of all types
of information in bulk: the relevance of any particular data to investigations of international
terrorism depends on all the facts and circumstances. For example, communications metadata is
different from many other kinds of records because it is inter-connected and the connections
between individual data points, which can be reliably identiﬁed only through analysis of a large
volume of data, are particularly important to a broad range of investigations of international
terrorism.

Moreover, information concerning the use of Section 215 to collect telephony metadata
in bulk was made available to all Members of Congress, and Congress reauthorized Section 215
without change after this information was provided. It is signiﬁcant to the legal analysis of the
statute that Congress was on notice of this activity and of the source of its legal authority when
the statute was reauthorized.

The telephony metadata collection program also complies with the Constitution.
Supreme Court precedent makes clear that participants in telephone calls lack a reasonable
expectation of privacy for purposes of the Fourth Amendment in the telephone numbers used to
make and receive their calls. Moreover, particularly given the Court-imposed restrictions on
accessing and disseminating the data, any arguable privacy intrusion arising from the collection
of telephony metadata would be outweighed by the public interest in identifying suspected
terrorist operatives and thwarting terrorist plots, rendering the program reasonable within the
meaning of the Fourth Amendment. Likewise, the program does not violate the First
Amendment, particularly given that the telephony metadata is collected to serve as an
investigative tool in authorized investigations of international terrorism.

I. THE TELEPHONY METADATA COLLECTION PROGRAM

One of the greatest challenges the United States faces in combating international
terrorism and preventing potentially catastrophic terrorist attacks on our country is identifying
terrorist operatives and networks, particularly those operating within the United States.
Detecting threats by exploiting terrorist communications has been, and continues to be, one of
the critical tools in this effort. It is imperative that we have the capability to rapidly identify any
terrorist threat inside the United States.

One important method that the Government has developed to accomplish this task is
analysis of metadata associated with telephone calls within, to, or from the United States. The
term “metadata” as used here refers to data collected under the program that is about telephone
calls but does not include the content of those calls. By analyzing telephony metadata based on

-2-

