telephone numbers or other identifiers associated with terrorist activity, trained expert analysts
can work to determine whether known or suspected terrorists have been in contact with
individuals in the United States. International terrorist organizations and their agents use the
international telephone system to communicate with one another between numerous countries all
over the world, including to and from the United States. In addition, when they are located
inside the United States, terrorist operatives make domestic U.S. telephone calls. The most
analytically significant terrorist-related communications are those with one end in the United
States or those that are purely domestic, because those communications are particularly likely to
identify suspects in the United States—whose activities may include planning attacks against the
homeland. The telephony metadata collection program was speciﬁcally developed to assist the
US. Government in detecting communications between known or suspected terrorists who are
operating outside of the United States and who are communicating with others inside the United
States, as well as communications between operatives within the United States. In this respect,
the program helps to close critical intelligence gaps that were highlighted by the September 11,
2001 attacks.

Pursuant to Section 215, the FBI obtains orders from the FISC directing certain
telecommunications service providers to produce business records that contain information about
communications between telephone numbers, generally relating to telephone calls made between
the United States and a foreign country and calls made entirely within the United States. The
information collected includes, for example, the telephone numbers dialed, other session-
identifying information, and the date, time, and duration of a call. The NSA, in turn, stores and
analyzes this information under carefully controlled circumstances. The judicial orders
authorizing the collection do not allow the Government to collect the content of any telephone
call, or the names, addresses, or ﬁnancial information of any party to a call. The Government
also does not collect cell phone locational information pursuant to these orders.

The Government cannot conduct substantive queries of the bulk records for any purpose
other than counterterrorism. Under the FISC orders authorizing the collection, authorized
queries may only begin with an “identifier,” such as a telephone number, that is associated with
one of the foreign terrorist organizations that was previously identiﬁed to and approved by the
Court. An identiﬁer used to commence a query of the data is referred to as a “seed.”
Speciﬁcally, under Court-approved rules applicable to the program, there must be a “reasonable,
articulable suspicion” that a seed identiﬁer used to query the data for foreign intelligence
purposes is associated with a particular foreign terrorist organization. When the seed identiﬁer is
reasonably believed to be used by a US. person, the suspicion of an association with a particular
foreign terrorist organization cannot be based solely on activities protected by the First
Amendment. The “reasonable, articulable suspicion” requirement protects against the
indiscriminate querying of the collected data. Technical controls preclude NSA analysts from
seeing any metadata unless it is the result of a query using an approved identifier.

Information responsive to an authorized query could include, among other things,
telephone numbers that have been in contact with the terrorist-associated number used to query
the data, plus the dates, times, and durations of the calls. Under the FISC’s order, the NSA may
also obtain information concerning second and third-tier contacts of the identifier (also referred
to as “hops”). The ﬁrst “hop” refers to the set of numbers directly in contact with the seed

-3-

