identiﬁer. The second “hop” refers to the set of numbers found to be in direct contact with the
first “hop” numbers, and the third “hop” refers to the set of numbers found to be in direct contact
with the second “hop” numbers. Following the trail in this fashion allows focused inquiries on
numbers of interest, thus potentially revealing a contact at the second or third “hop” from the
seed telephone number that connects to a different terrorist-associated telephone number already
known to the analyst. Thus, the order allows the NSA to retrieve information as many as three
“hops” from the initial identifier. Even so, under this process, only a tiny fraction of the bulk
telephony metadata records stored at NSA are authorized to be seen by an NSA intelligence
analyst, and only under carefully controlled circumstances.

Results of authorized queries are stored and are available only to those analysts trained in
the restrictions on the handling and dissemination of the metadata. Query results can be further
analyzed only for valid foreign intelligence purposes. Based on this analysis of the data, the
NSA then provides leads to the FBI or others in the Intelligence Community. For US. persons,
these leads are limited to counterterrorism investigations. Analysts must also apply the
minimization and dissemination requirements and procedures speciﬁcally set out in the Court’s
orders before query results, in any form, are disseminated outside of the NSA. NSA’s analysis
of query results obtained from the bulk metadata has generated and continues to generate
investigative leads for ongoing efforts by the FBI and other agencies to identify and track
terrorist operatives, associates, and facilitators.

Thus, critically, although a large amount of metadata is consolidated and preserved by the
Government, the vast majority of that information is never seen by any person. Only
information responsive to the limited queries that are authorized for counterterrorism purposes is
extracted and reviewed by analysts. Although the number of unique identifiers has varied
substantially over the years, in 2012, fewer than 300 met the “reasonable, articulable suspicion”
standard and were used as seeds to query the data after meeting the standard. Because the same
seed identiﬁer can be queried more than once over time, can generate multiple responsive
records, and can be used to obtain contact numbers up to three “hops” from the seed identiﬁer,
the number of metadata records responsive to such queries is substantially larger than 300, but it
is still a tiny fraction of the total volume of metadata records. It would be impossible to conduct
these queries effectively without a large pool of telephony metadata to search, as there is no way
to know in advance which numbers will be responsive to the authorized queries.

If the FBI investigates a telephone number or other identifier tipped to it through this
program, the FBI must rely on publicly available information, other available intelligence, or
other legal processes in order to identify the subscribers of any of the numbers that are retrieved.
For example, the FBI could submit a grand jury subpoena to a telephone company to obtain
subscriber information for a telephone number. If, through further investigation, the FBI were
able to develop probable cause to believe that a number in the United States was being used by
an agent of a foreign terrorist organization, the FBI could apply to the FISC for an order under
Title I of FISA to authorize interception of the contents of future communications to and from
that telephone number.

The telephony metadata collection program is subject to an extensive regime of oversight
and internal checks and is monitored by the Department of Justice (DOJ), the FISC, and

-4-

