Congress, as well as the Intelligence Community. No more than twenty-two designated NSA
officials can make a ﬁnding that there is “reasonable, articulable suspicion” that a seed identifier
proposed for query is associated with a specific foreign terrorist organization, and NSA’s Office
of General Counsel must review and approve any such findings for numbers believed to be used
by US. persons. In addition, before the NSA disseminates any information about a US. person
outside the agency, a high-ranking NSA ofﬁcial must determine that the information identifying
the US. person is in fact related to counterterrorism information and is necessary to understand
the counterterrorism information or assess its importance. Among the program’s additional
safeguards and requirements are: (1) audits and reviews of various aspects of the program,
including “reasonable, articulable suspicion” ﬁndings, by several entities within the Executive
Branch, including NSA’s legal and oversight ofﬁces and the Ofﬁce of the Inspector General, as
well as attorneys from DOJ’s National Security Division and the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence (ODNI); (2) controls on who can access and query the collected data;

(3) requirements for training of analysts who receive the data generated by queries; and (4) a
five-year limit on retention of raw collected data.

In addition to internal oversight, any compliance matters in this program that are
identiﬁed by the NSA, DOJ, or ODNI are reported to the FISC. The FISC’s orders to produce
records under the program must be renewed every 90 days, and applications for renewals must
report information about how the authority has been implemented under the prior authorization.
Signiﬁcant compliance incidents are also reported to the Intelligence and Judiciary Committees
of both houses of Congress. Since the telephony metadata collection program under Section 215
was initiated, there have been a number of significant compliance and implementation issues that
were discovered as a result of DOJ and ODNI reviews and internal NSA oversight. In
accordance with the Court’s rules, upon discovery, these violations were reported to the FISC,
which ordered appropriate remedial action. The incidents, and the Court’s responses, were also
reported to the Intelligence and Judiciary Committees in great detail. These problems generally
involved human error or highly sophisticated technology issues related to NSA’s compliance
with particular aspects of the Court’s orders. The FISC has on occasion been critical of the
Executive Branch's compliance problems as well as the Govemment’s court ﬁlings. However,
the NSA and DOJ have corrected the problems identified to the Court, and the Court has
continued to authorize the program with appropriate remedial measures.

II. THE TELEPHONY METADATA COLLECTION PROGRAM
COMPLIES WITH SECTION 215

The collection of telephony metadata in bulk for counterterrorism purposes, subject to the
restrictions identified above, complies with Section 215, as fourteen different judges of the FISC
have concluded in issuing orders directing telecommunications service providers to produce the
data to the Government. This conclusion does not mean that any and all types of business
records—such as medical records or library or bookstore records—could be collected in bulk
under this authority. In the context of communications metadata, in which connections between
individual data points are important, and analysis of bulk metadata is the only practical means to
ﬁnd those otherwise invisible connections in an effort to identify terrorist operatives and
networks, the collection of bulk data is relevant to FBI investigations of international terrorism.

-5-

