This collection, moreover, occurs only in a context in which the Government’s acquisition, use,
and dissemination of the information are subject to strict judicial oversight and rigorous
protections to prevent its misuse.

A. Statutory Requirements

Section 215 authorizes the FISC to issue an order for the “production of any tangible
things (including books, records, papers, documents, and other items) for an investigation to
obtain foreign intelligence information not concerning a United States person or to protect
against international terrorism,” except that it prohibits an “investigation of a United States
person” that is “conducted solely on the basis of activities protected by the ﬁrst amendment to
the Constitution.” 50 U.S.C. § l861(a)(1). The Government’s application for an order must
include “a statement of facts showing that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
tangible things sought are relevant to [such] an authorized investigation (other than a threat
assessment)” and that the investigation is being conducted under guidelines approved by the
Attorney General. Id. § 1861(b)(2)(A) and (a)(2)(A). Because Section 215 does not authorize
the FISC to issue an order for the collection of records in connection with FBI threat
assessments,1 to obtain records under Section 215 the investigation must be “predicated” (e. g.,
based on facts or circumstances indicative of terrorism, consistent with FBI guidelines approved
by the Attorney General). Finally, Section 215 authorizes the collection of records only if they
are of a type that could be obtained either “with a subpoena duces tecum issued by a court of the
United States in aid of a grand jury investigation or with any other order issued by a court of the
United States directing the production of records or tangible things.” Id. § 1861(c)(2)(D).2 The
telephony metadata collection program complies with each of these requirements.

1. Authorized Investigation. The telephony metadata records are sought for properly
predicated FBI investigations into specific international terrorist organizations and suspected
terrorists. The FBI conducts the investigations consistent with the Attorney General ’s
Guidelines for Domestic FBI Operations, U.S. Dep’t of Justice (2008), which direct the FBI “to
protect the United States and its people from . . . threats to the national security” and to “further
the foreign intelligence objectives of the United States,” a mandate that extends beyond
traditional criminal law enforcement. See id. at 12. The guidelines authorize a full investigation
into an international terrorist organization if there is an “articulable factual basis for the
investigation that reasonably indicates that the group or organization may have engaged . . .
in . . . international terrorism or other threat to the national security,” or may be planning or

 

1 “Threat assessments” refer to investigative activity that does not require any particular factual predication (but

does require an authorized purpose and cannot be based on the exercise of First Amendment protected activity or on
race, ethnicity, national origin, or religion of the subject). FBI Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide, § 5.1
(201 1).

2 Indeed, Section 215 was enacted because the FBI lacked the ability, in national security investigations, to seek
business records in a way similar to its ability to seek records using a grand jury subpoena in a criminal case or an
administrative subpoena in civil investigations. See, e. g., S. Rep. No. 109-85, at 20 (2005) (“[A] federal prosecutor
need only sign and issue a grand jury subpoena to obtain similar documents in criminal investigations, yet national
security investigations have no similar investigative tool.”).

-6-

