supporting such conduct. See id. at 23. FBI investigations into the international terrorist
organizations identiﬁed to the Court readily meet that standard, and there have been numerous
FBI investigations in the last several years to which the telephony metadata records are relevant.
The guidelines provide that investigations of a terrorist organization “may include a general
examination of the structure, scope, and nature of the group or organization including: its
relationship, if any, to a foreign power; [and] the identity and relationship of its members,
employees, or other persons who may be acting in furtherance of its objectives.” Id. And in
investigating international terrorism, the FBI is required to “fully utilize the authorities and the
methods authorized” in the guidelines, which include “[a]ll lawful . . . methods,” including the
use of intelligence tools such as Section 215. Id. at 12 and 31.

2. Tangible Things. The telephony metadata records are among the types of materials
that can be obtained under Section 215. The statute broadly provides for the production of “any
tangible things (including books, records, papers, documents, and other items).” See 50 U.S.C.
§ 1861(a)(1). There is little question that in enacting Section 215 in 2001 and then amending it
in 2006, Congress understood that among the things that the FBI would need to acquire to
conduct terrorism investigations were documents and records stored in electronic form.
Congress may have used the term “tangible things” to make clear that this authority covers the
production of items as opposed to oral testimony, which is another type of subpoena beyond the
scope of Section 215. Thus, as Congress has made clear in other statutes involving production of
records, “tangible things” include electronically stored information. See 7 U.S.C. § 7733(a)
(“The Secretary shall have the power to subpoena . . . the production of all evidence (including
books, papers, documents, electronically stored information, and other tangible things that
constitute or contain evidence).”) (emphasis added); 7 U.S.C. § 8314 (a)(2)(A) (containing the
same language).3

The non-exhaustive list of “tangible things” in Section 215, moreover, includes the terms
“documents” and “records,” both of which are commonly used in reference to information stored
in electronic form. The telephony metadata information is an electronically stored “record” of,
among other information, the date, time, and duration of a call between two telephone numbers.
And in the analogous context of civil discovery, the term “documents” has for decades been
interpreted to include electronically stored information. The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
were amended in 1970 to make that understanding of the term “documents” explicit, see Nat’l.
Union Elec. Corp. v. Matsushita Elec. Indus. Co., Ltd., 494 F. Supp. 1257, 1261-62 (E.D. Pa.
1980), and again in 2006 to expressly add the term “electronically stored information.” See Fed.
R. Civ. Pro. 34 (governing production of “documents, electronically stored information, and
tangible things”).4 Moreover, a judge may grant an order for production of records under

 

3 The word “tangible” can be used in some contexts to connote not only tactile objects like pieces of paper, but also
any other things that are “capable of being perceived” by the senses. See Merriam Webster Online Dictionary
(2013) (defining “tangible” as “capable of being perceived especially by the sense of touch”) (emphasis added).

4 The notes of the Advisory Committee on the 2006 amendments to Rule 34 explain that:
Lawyers and judges interpreted the term “documents” to include electronically stored information because

it was obviously improper to allow a party to evade discovery obligations on the basis that the label had not
kept pace with changes in information technology. But it has become increasingly difficult to say that all

-7-

