Section 215 only if the records could “be obtained with a subpoena duces tecum issued by a
court of the United States in aid of a grand jury investigation or with any other order issued by a
court of the United States directing the production of records or tangible things,” and grand jury
subpoenas can be and frequently are used to seek electronically stored telephony metadata
records such as those sought under Section 215 or other electronically stored records. See 50
U.S.C. § 1861(c)(2)(D) (emphasis added); 18 U.S.C. § 2703(b)(1)(B)(i). That further conﬁrms
that Section 215 applies to electronically stored information.

3. Relevance to an Authorized Investigation. The telephony metadata program also
satisﬁes the statutory requirement that there be “reasonable grounds to believe” that the records
collected are “relevant to an authorized investigation . . . to obtain foreign intelligence
information . . . or to protect against international terrorism or clandestine intelligence
activities.” See 50 U.S.C. § 1861(b)(2)(A). The text of Section 215, considered in light of the
well-developed understanding of “relevance” in the context of civil discovery and criminal and
administrative subpoenas, as well as the broader purposes of this statute, indicates that there are
“reasonable grounds to believe” that the records at issue here are “relevant to an authorized
investigation.” Speciﬁcally, in the circumstance where the Government has reason to believe
that conducting a search of a broad collection of telephony metadata records will produce
counterterrorism information—and that it is necessary to collect a large volume of data in order

 

forms of electronically stored information, many dynamic in nature, fit within the traditional concept of a
‘document.’ Electronically stored information may exist in dynamic databases and other forms far different
from fixed expression on paper. Rule 34(a) is amended to conﬁrm that discovery of electronically stored
information stands on equal footing with discovery of paper documents. The change clarifies that Rule 34
applies to information that is fixed in a tangible form and to information that is stored in a medium from
which it can be retrieved and examined. At the same time, a Rule 34 request for production of ‘documents’
should be understood to encompass, and the response should include, electronically stored information
unless discovery in the action has clearly distinguished between electronically stored information and
‘documents.’

Fed. R. Civ. Pro 34, Notes of Advisory Committee on 2006 Amendments (emphasis added).

5 The legislative history of Section 215 also supports this reading of the provision to include electronic data. In its
discussion of Section 215, the House Report accompanying the USA PATRIOT Reauthorization Act of 2006 notes
that there were electronic records in a Florida public library that might have been used to help prevent the September
11, 2001, attacks had the FBI obtained them. See H.R. Rep. No. 109-174(1), at 17-18 (2005). Specifically, the
report describes “records indicat[ing] that a person using [the hijacker] Alhazmi’s account used the library’s
computer to review September 11th reservations that had been previously booked.” Id. at 18. Congress used this
example to illustrate the types of “tangible things” that Section 215 authorizes the FBI to obtain through a FISC
order. Moreover, the House Report cites testimony in 2005 by the Attorney General before the House Committee
on the Judiciary, where the Attorney General explained that Section 215 had been used “to obtain driver’s license
records, public accommodation records, apartment leasing records, credit card records, and subscriber information,
such as names and addresses, for telephone numbers captured through court-authorized pen-register devices.” Id.
(emphasis added). Telecommunications service providers store such subscriber information electronically.
Accordingly, the House Report suggests that Congress understood that Section 215 had been used to capture
electronically stored records held by telecommunications service providers and reauthorized Section 215 based on
that understanding.

