TOPSECRETSTRAPl
12th November 2010

A. REFERENCES

[a] iPhone applications and privacy issues: An analysis of Application
Transmission of iPhone Unique Device Identifiers (UDIDs).
October 1 2010

[b] CROWN PRINCE — Techni ue for identifying Apple UDIDs in HTTP traffic
— 8/784415001111105h- 22/07/10

[c] Strategic Framework Task 4138585 — Report No: 72/09/Rl416/C, Roke —
October 2009 Issue 2

[d] The Good ienetration iuide -

re] ereee —
m reheneereene-—

B. BACKGROUND

1. Every Apple iPhone, iPad and iPod touch has a unique hardware
identifier called the Apple UDID. The UDID is a 40 character hex string
(160 bits) that seems to be a SHA-l hash of the IMEI, serial number and
the Bluetooth and WiFi MAC addresses. The UDID is available to
developers of applications for these devices. and it is used to identify a
given device. As highlighted in [a]. the UDID is seen in multiple apps and
can be used to allow target tracking or be used to correlate with other
personal identifiers.

2. The Mobile Theme has invested a large amount of research into iPhone
apps and metadata anal sis over the last year accumulating with a
detailed report done by [c] in October 2009 and 29 SEM rules
created by lCTR-MCT [b]. These rules have used to extract iPhone
metadata for a number of apps and in particular the Unique Device
Identifier (UDID) from any carrier being processed using DEBIT CARDs.
Further TDI rules are being developed by GTE that will in the future
extract UDID events from carriers processed through the MVR system.
The resulting events have then been used to populate both research and
corporate QFDs (Query Focused Datasets) such as MUTANT BROTH
and AUTOASSOC and will eventually form the basis of mobile
correlations in HARD ASSOC.

3. Initially, an exploit was developed by the Joint CNE/TECA Mobile
Exploitation Team for iPhone that was to be delivered to the target
phone when syncing with an exploited end point machine. This was
successful for a BROKER target and resulted in the extraction of SMS,
caIl logs and contact details. After this initial trial, CNE and SD undertook
work to discover other single end points seen syncing with iPhones.

4. At HANDEX 2010 (handset exploitation workshop) in August, various
aspects of the iPhone OS were investigated for potential vulnerabilities.

Page 2 of 11
TOPSECRETSTRAPl

