30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

TOP SECRET STRAP1
12th November 2010

- and after further analysis it was discovered that this selector was
not-but an associate. It was removed from tasking.

Target analysis and warrant was completed for a further five targets and
a successful QUANTUM redirect and the PDF exploit was delivered for
—(URN PFVT658) on the 30th of October. The resulting
WARRIORPRIDE install was also performed and beaconed on the 2nd of
November. The target phone was shown to be jailbroken and on the 3rd
of November content was successfully extracted from the phone and
was available in Looking Glass. This is highlighted in Appendix B with
the resulting iPhone directory structure presented how it appears in
Looking Glass. The WARRIORPRIDE exploit has resulted in extraction
of the target’s address book, sms, call logs, notes, WLAN logs.
bookmarks, map query history. Safari browsing history and some
images. Detailed analysis of extracted files will be covered in a further
report.

A successful redirect to — in October was
performed but due to what is believed to be Javascript being disabled on
the phone the firmware type of the phone could not be confirmed to
enable the first stage implant. This initial survey of the firmware type has
now been removed after discussions within CNE but the target has not
been seen recently on his iPhone for exploitation. The two other targets
tasked for QUANTUM have failed to be seen recently in collect.

Currently, there are four CNE Single End Point machines that have been
identified with recently sync'd iPhone targets. The most recent being an
OVERLIT target seen on 29/09/10. These targets are being monitored
by CNE and will have the SLIDE exploit installed to allow implant of
WARRIORPRIDE when the iPhone is sync'd with the existing SEP
machine.

CONCLUSION

With the analysis of the UDIDs on target machines and correlation in
passive collection with known target yahoo selectors, the UDID can be
used to correlate iPhone handset to end point sync machine and tasked
yahoo selectors. The UDID can be used for realtime tracking of target
iPhones and could in theory be used as a selector for QUANTUM events
where other traditional selectors (yahoo-Y/B cookie etc) are not present.
Of course an exploit for the application would have to be written which is
not trivial.

It is not possible at this time to take the UDID and reverse engineer the
SHA-l HASH to discover the IMEI, MAC addresses and serial number.

Further work is ongoing to identify targets of interest that are suitable for
the QUANTUM exploitation. Development and monitoring of current

identified tar ets is still being done. Discovery of an associated IMEI for
i will help in firmware identification and exploitation of this
target.

Page 8 of 11
TOP SECRET STRAP1

