HOME PAGE TODAY‘S PAPER VIDEO MOST POPULAR U.S.Edition Subscribe: Digital/ Home Delivery Log In RegisterNow Help

El]: New ﬂurk an!” U S Search All NYTimes.com
- n 5.50

 

WORLD U.S. N.Y./REGION BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY SCIENCE HEALTH SPORTS OPINION ARTS STYLE TRAVEL JOBS REAL ESTATE AUTOS
POLITICS EDUCATION TEXAS

Advertisement

Published: September 5, 2013 FACEBOOK TWITTER GOOGLE+ E-MAIL SHARE

Secret Documents Reveal N.S.A. Campaign Against Encryption

Documents show that the N.S.A. has been waging a war against encryption using a battery of methods that include working
with industry to weaken encryption standards, making design changes to cryptographic software, and pushing international

encryption standards it knows it can break. Related Article »

Excerpt from 2013 Intelligence Budget Request Bullrun Briefing Sheet

When British analysts were cleared for the Bullrun program, they were given this briefing sheet outlining the sensitivities
of the program, including the N.S.A.'s specific capabilities against widely used Internet encryption technologies.

BULLRUN Col — Briefing Sheet

Introduction
1. The ability to exploit targets’ encrypted communications is extremely fragile Penetrating Target Defences is the code-cracking group
and is often enabled through sensitive ECI programmes. The need to take W'th'“ Br'tam Government C°mmun'°at'°“s

. . , , . Headquarters, or GCHQ.
additional measures to protect that capability has long been recognised.

Currently, virtually all decryption is carried out by PTD (ARTHUR) processing
with decrypts going to the IIB in the NOCON Col; some decrypts are placed
in the ENDUE Col due to the sensitivity or fragility of the exploitation

capability.
2. In recent years there has been an aggressive effort, lead by NSA, to make In 2000, the N.S.A. mounted a full-scale effort to preserve

- - - - - - - - its access to the Internet. The agency deployed the
major improvements in defeating network security and privacy Involvmg worlds IasIesI compuIeIS Io break codes and began
multiple sources and methods, all of which are extremely senSitive and co||aborating Wtth technology companies in the United
fragile. These include: Computer Network Exploitation (CNE); collaboration Stages Iand abmad ‘0 “1"" access POMS "“0 the"

I I I I I I pro UC S.

With other Intelligence AgenCies; investment in high-performance computers;
and development of advanced mathematical techniques. Several ECI
compartments may apply to the specific sources, methods, and techniques
involved.
3. Making the best use of these new capabilities requires that decryption Three years ago, the N.S.A. gained the capability to
processing be widely deployed beyond PTD and the results of that decryptvaStamwntS “summed '“temetdata-

processing be available to a wide range of analysts. This inevitably makes it
harder to protect this sensitive and fragile capability and we need to
counterbalance this by introducing measures to control access to this
material and heighten awareness of the sensitivities amongst those who have
access.

