4. To achieve this, NSA has introduced the BULLRUN Col to protect our
abilities to defeat the encryption used in network communication
technologies. This covers both the “fact of" a capability against a specific
technology and resulting decrypts (which may be either plaintext or metadata
(events). GCHQ is also introducing BULLRUN. (CSEC, BSD and GCSB are
expected to do likewise.)

Control Authority

5. The BULLRUN Col is owned by II... for Penetrating Target Defences
(PTD). Authority to manage the Col is delegated to II... (currently
II... )and II... ( III-I ,currently III-I ).

BULLRUN Sensitivity and Coverage

6. It is imperative to protect the fact that GCHQ, NSA and their Sigint partners
have capabilities against specific network security technologies as well as the
number and scope of successes. These capabilities are among the Sigint
community’s most fragile, and the inadvertent disclosure of the simple “fact
of" could alert the adversary and result in immediate loss of the capability.
Consequently, any admission of “fact of" a capability to defeat encryption
used in specific network communication technologies or disclosure of details
relating to that capability must be protected by the BULLRUN COl and
restricted to those specifically indoctrinated for BULLRUN. The various types
of security covered by BULLRUN include, but are not limited to, TLS/SSL,
https (e.g. webmail), SSH, encrypted chat, VPNs and encrypted VOIP. The
specific instances of these technologies that can be exploited will be
published in a separate Annexe (available to BULLRUN indoctrinated staff).

7. In addition to the specific technologies that GCHQ or its Sigint partners are
able to exploit, the methods used to achieve the exploitation must also be
protected. These include support from other organisations, both internal and
external to GCHQ. Access to BULLRUN does NOT imply any “need-to-know"
the details of sources and methods used to achieve exploitation and, in
general, there will be NO “need-to-know". Requests for access to information
on sources and methods should be sent to OPC-SEC; if considered
appropriate, this access may require clearance for certain ECls.

8. BULLRUN material, data, and details must be protected with the use of the
BULLRUN Col and be marked with the label “BULLRUN," in addition to the
required privacy marking and other descriptors. Use of the BULLRUN marking
is restricted to GCHQ and its Sigint 2nd Parties.

Access and Security

9. Requests for access to the Col must be sponsored by a GC8 or above and
must be accompanied by a business case outlining the “need-to-know".
Access for contractors will be limited and will require a strong business case;
such requests should be discussed with the Col Authority’s delegates before
submission. Requests for access are to be sent by email to PTDAccesses.

10. Knowledge of BULLRUN information and access to the BULLRUN Col will
only be granted to indoctrinated individuals.

11. It is the responsibility of sponsors (or their successors) to notify II...
when an individual no longer require access to BULLRUN.

Handling Procedures

The full extent of the N.S.A‘s decoding capabilities is
known only to a limited group of top analysts from the
NSA. and its counterparts in Britain, Canada, Australia
and New Zealand (the so-called Five Eyes group). Only
they are cleared for the Bullrun program, the successor to
one called Manassas — both names of American Civil
War battles. The corresponding counterencryption
program at GCHQ is Edgehill, named for the first battle of
the English Civil War.

The agency has circumvented or cracked much of the
encryption that guards global commerce and banking
systems, protects sensitive data like trade secrets and
medical records, and automatically secures basic Internet
communications, including the e-mails, Web searches,
Internet chats and phone calls of millions of Americans
and others around the world.

Unlike some classified information that can be parceled
out on a strict “need to know" basis, the Bullrun program
is so secret that, in general, there will be no need to
know.

Only a small cadre of contractors were allowed to join
Bullrun. It does not appear that Edward J. Snowden had
access, but he managed to gain access to dozens of
classified documents mentioning Bullrun.

