Policy Department 0: Citizens' rights and Constitutional Affairs

1. HISTORICAL BACKGROUND OF US SURVEILLANCE

 

KEY FINDINGS

 

0 A historical account of US various surveillance programmes (precursors to Echelon,

 

PRISM, etc.) and US legislation in the field of surveillance (FISA and FAA) shows

 

that the US has continuously disregarded the fundamental rights of non-US

 

citizens.

 

0 In Particular, the scope of FAA coupled with expressly ‘political’ definitions of what

 

constitutes ‘foreign intelligence information’ creates a power of mass-

 

surveillance specifically targeted at the data of non-US persons located

 

outside the US, which eludes effective control by current and proposed EU Data

 

 

Protection regulation.

 

 

A historical account of US surveillance programmes provides the context for their
interpretation as the latest phase of a system of US exceptionalism, with origins in World
War II. These programmes constitute the greatest contemporary challenge to data
protection, because they incorporated arbitrary discriminatory standards of treatment
strictly according to nationality and geopolitical alliances, which are secret and incompatible
with the rule of law under EU structures.

1.1. World War II and the origins of the UKUSA treaties

In the 1970s there were the first disclosures of the extent of Allied success in WWII
cryptanalysis. The world discovered the secret history of Bletchley Park (aka Station X),
Churchill’s signals intelligence headquarters. The story of post-war secret intelligence
partnerships at the international level is intertwined with the personal trajectory of Alan
Turing, a great mathematician and co-founder of computer science, who was critical to the
effort to design automated machines which could feasibly solve ciphers generated by
machine, such as Enigma (used for many Nazi Germany communications).

Alan Turing travelled to the US in 1942 to supervise US Navy mass-production of the
decryption machines (called ’bombes’) for the Atlantic war, and to review work on a new
scrambler telephone at Bell Laboratories to be used for communications between Heads of
Government. Unfortunately Turing was not equipped with any letters of authority, so he
was detained by US immigration as suspicious until rescued by UK officials in New York.
What was initially supposed to be a two-week trip turned into months, as no precedent
existed to grant even a foreign ally security clearance to the laboratories he was supposed
to visit. There followed several months of fraught UK diplomacy and turf wars between the
US Navy and Army, since the latter had no “need-to-know" about Ultra (the name given to
intelligence produced from decryption at Bletchley). The UK wanted as few people as
possible in on the secret, and the disharmony thus experienced inside the US military
security hierarchies became known as “the Turing Affair".

These were the origins of the post-war secret intelligence partnership between the US and
UK as “first" parties, Canada/Australia/New Zealand as second parties, and other nations
with lesser access as third parties. The treaty is named UKUSA, and we know the details
above about its genesis because in 2010 the US National Security Agency declassified the
unredacted text of UKUSA treaties8 up until the 1950s with related correspondence (the

 

8 UKUSA Agreement Release 1940-1956 Earlv Papers Concerning US—UK Aqreement — 1940—1944, NSA/CSS

1O

