The US surveillance programmes and their impact on EU citizens' fundamental rights

current text is secret). GCH09 did not declassify much in comparison, although the occasion
was billed as joint exercise.

The purpose of the UKUSA treaties was to establish defined areas of technical co-
operation and avoid conflicts. However, no general “no spy” clause appears in the
versions published up until the 1950s, but expressions of amity comparable to
public treaties. It is not known whether any comprehensive secret “no spy" agreement
exists today between the UK and US, and neither has ever given legislative or executive
comment on the matter.

1.2. ECHELON: the UKUSA communications surveillance nexus

From the founding of the US National Security Agency (NSA) in 1952 throughout the Cold
War, both the UK and US vastly expanded their signal intelligence capacities, collecting
from undersea cables at landing points1°, satellites intercepting terrestrial microwave
relays, and arrays of antennae usually sited in military bases and embassies. The evolution
and nature of these capabilities were documented from open source research in two
reports11 to the European institutions culminating in the Parliament’s inquiry into ECHELON
in 2000. ECHELON was in fact a codeword for one particular surveillance system, but
became in common usage a synecdoche for the entire UKUSA communications surveillance
nexus. The last meeting the EP inquiry committee was on September 10, 2001. The
Committee recommended to the European Parliament that citizens of EU member states
use cryptography in their communications to protect their privacy, because
economic espionage with ECHELON had obviously been conducted by the US intelligence
agencres.

1.3. 1975-1978: Watergate and the Church Committee

After the US was convulsed by the Watergate scandal culminating in the resignation of
Richard Nixon, Senator Frank Church led a Congressional committee of inquiry into abuses
of power by law-enforcement and intelligence agencies which had conducted illegal
domestic wire-tapping of political and civic leaders under presidential authority, and
contrary to the Fourth Amendment of the US constitution which protects privacy against
unreasonable searches without a particular warrant, issued on “probable cause" (meaning
evidence of a 50% likelihood of criminality).

The Church inquiry reported on the question of whether the Fourth Amendment restricts
the mass-trawling and collection of international communications, which they discovered
had been secretly conducted since the 1940s on telegrams”. The inquiry canvassed that
inadvertent collection of Americans’ data transmitted internationally was
tolerable, if procedures were made for “minimization" of erroneous unwarranted access
(and mistakes not used prejudicially against Americans).

 

9 Government Communications Head-Quarters, the UK national cryptologic and information national security
surveillance organisation, the descendent organisation from Bletchley Park.

‘0 This practice started with the earliest cables for telegraphy in the 19th century and was a crucial aspect of
Zimmerman Telegram affair which was influential in persuading America to join WW1. See: Desai, Anuj C. (2007),
Wiretapping Before the Wires: The Post Office and the Birth of Communications Privacy, Stanford Law Review, 60
STAN L. REV. 553 (2007).

“ STOA interception Capabilities 2000) and EuroParl ECHELON (2001) - reports by Duncan Campbell.

‘2 No formal authority for the SHAMROCK collection (or sister MINARET trawling) programme existed but at the
government's request a tape of all cables was delivered by courier every day to the NSA. See Snider, Britt L.
(1999): Unluckv SHAMROCK - Recollections from the Church Committee's lnvestioation of NSA.

11

