The US surveillance programmes and their impact on EU citizens' fundamental rights

When the “warrantiess wiretapping” allegations surfaced in a series of press reports from
The New York Times, The Los Angeles Times, and The Wall Street Journal, the resonance
with the supposedly cancelled T.|.A project intensified the level of public unease.

1.5. Edward Snowden’s revelations and PRISM

On June 5th The Washington Post and The Guardian published a secret order made under
s.215 of the PATRIOT Act requiring the Verizon telephone company to give the NSA details
of all US domestic and international phone calls, and “on an ongoing basis”. On June 6th
the two newspapers revealed the existence of an NSA programme codenamed PRISM,
which accessed data from leading brands of US Internet companies. By the end of the day
a statement from Adm.Clapper (Director of NSA) officially acknowledged the PRISM
programme and that it relied on powers under the FISA Amendment 2008 s.1881a/702. On
June 9‘“ Edward Snowden voluntarily disclosed his identity and a film interview with him
was released.

The primary publication was in three newspapers: The Guardian, The Washington Post, and
Der Spiegel. Four journalists have played a central role in obtaining, analysing and
interpreting this material for the public: Barton Gellman, Laura Poitras, Jacob Appelbaum
and Glenn Greenwald. They were joined by The Guardian (US edition), the New York Times
in conjunction with ProPublica after the UK government insisted on destruction of The
Guardian’s copy of the Snowden material in their London offices, under the supervision of
GCHQ‘B.

What can be referred to as the ‘PRISM scandal’ revealed a number of surveillance
programmes, including:

1.5.1 “Upstream"

The slides published from the Snowden material feature references to “Upstream" collection
programmes by the NSA adumbrated by various codewords. Data is copied from both
public and private networks to the NSA from international fibre-optic cables at landing
points, and from central exchanges which switch Internet traffic between the major
carriers, through agreements negotiated with (or legal orders served on) the operating
companies (and probably also by intercepting cables on the seabed19 when necessary).

1.5.2 XKeyscore

The XKeyscore system was described in slides20 (dated 2008“) published by The Guardian
on the 31St of July. It is an “exploitation system/analytic framework”, which enables
searching a “3 day rolling buffer" of “full take” data stored at 150 global sites on 700
database servers. The system integrates data collected22 from US embassy sites, foreign
satellite and microwave transmissions (i.e. the system formerly known as ECHELON), and
the “upstream” sources above.

The system indexes e-mail addresses, file names, IP addresses and port numbers, cookies,
webmail and chat usernames and buddylists, phone numbers, and metadata from web

 

‘8 It is outside the scope of this report to give a full analysis of what has been revealed, but in what follows it is
assumed that the slides and documents are authentic, and no serious suggestions have been made to the
contrary.

‘9 The existence US submarines specially equipped for intercepting undersea cables was outlined in the 2000 EP
ECHELON report cf. “Ivy Bells"

2° http://www.theouardian.com/world/interactive/2013/iul/31/nsa-xkevscore-prooramme-full-presentation

2‘ A job advertisement was posted by a defence contractor in July 2013 indicating the programme is still active.

22 http://theweek.com/article/index/247684/whats-xkevscore

13

