Policy Department C: Citizens' rights and Constitutional Affairs

by one advocate: “they were conducting suspicion-less searches to obtain the suspicion the
FISA court required to conduct searches”?

Problems that emerged from Fl SA were left to the interpretation (in secret proceedings) of
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC and the higher Review court FISCR)
whose judges are appointed solely by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. It appears
that the FISA courts agree with the government’s argument that it is common in
investigations for some indefinitely large corpus of records to be considered “relevant”, in
order to discover the actual evidence. Some official declassifications of the secret FISC(R)
Opinions are in progress, but have not so far explained this logical anomaly.

2.1.3. ‘Direct Access’ to data-centres granted for surveillance purposes?

The companies named in the PRISM slides issued prompt denials of “direct access" to their
datacentres, mentioned in the “marketing" slides that revealed PRISM’s existence. Their
position was that they were simply complying with a mandatory court order, and they had
never heard of the PRISM codename (which is not surprising since this was an NSA
codeword for a Top Secret programme). Microsoft asserted that they only responded to
requests referencing specific account identifiers, and Google and Facebook denied they had
“black boxes” stationed in their networks giving “direct access". The companies are
constrained by the secrecy provisions of s.702, on pain of contempt or even espionage
charges“. Google and Microsoft are now suing the government for permission to publish a
breakdown of the number of persons affected by Fl SA orders.

However there is no substantive inconsistency between the carefully wordsmithed (and
apparently co-ordinated34) company denials and the reports of PRISM. The phrase “direct
access" was likely intended to distinguish this modality from “upstream” collection (see
above), not necessarily implying a literal capability to extract data without the company’s
knowledge. However, such literal “direct access" is not precluded by the 702 statute, and it
may be that this has already occurred with some other companies, or may in future be
permitted by the FISC.

A critical further development resulted from a keen observation by The New York Times35
on August 8th that in the targeting procedures published on June 20‘“, the “selectors" used
to specify the information to be accessed under 702 could include arbitrary search terms.
This ought not to be surprising from a plain reading of the statute, but it emphasized that
Americans’ (and of course non-Americans’) privacy could be implicated in arbitrary trawls
through a mass of data, rather than access being confined to account identifiers judged
50% likely to be non-American. A further story disclosed36 that at the government’s
request in 2011 the FISA court reversed an earlier ruling and thenceforth permitted
arbitrary search terms even if these included targeting factors characteristic of Americans.

 

32 https://www.eff.oro/deeplinks/2013/09/oovernment-releases-nsa-surveillance-docs-and-previouslv-secret-fisa-
court

33 http://www.theouardian.com/technoloov/2013/sep/11/vahoo-ceo-maver-iail-nsa-surveillance

3‘ The phrasing of statements from Google and Facebook have many concordances which strongly suggest they
are derived from a common text.

35 htt '//www n times.com/2013/08/08/us/broader-siftin -of-data-abroad-is-seen-b -

nsa.html?pagewanted=1&hp

35.http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/federal government/report-surveillance-court-ruling-allowed-nsa-
search-of-domestic-em ail/2013/09/08/4d9c8bb8-18c0-11e3-80ac-96205cacb45a storv.html

 

18

