Policy Department C: Citizens' rights and Constitutional Affairs

2.2.2. Specific powers over communications of non-US persons

To end the public controversy43 over “warrantiess wiretapping” of Americans, the US
Congress enacted44 the interim Protect America Act (PAA) in 2007, which amended FISA
1978, and created a new power targeted at the communications of non-US persons located
outside the territory of the US (i.e. the 95% of the rest-of-the-world). The most heated
political difficulty was over whether telecommunications companies had broken statute law
regulating the privacy of their subscribers by co-operating. Depending on the contested
legitimacy of the use of the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) to effect
surveillance, which had impinged on Americans, the companies were potentially liable for
billions of dollars of damages. The telecommunications companies and the Internet service
providers industry were adamant that complete civil immunity was their price for future co-
operation. It is here critical to underline that this controversy was about the effects on the
privacy of Americans, and that the surveillance of foreigners outside the US, through their
communications routed to or via the US, was an assumed fait accompli and national
prerogative45.

2.2.3. The Fourth Amendment does not apply to non-USPERs outside the US

The connection between the controversy over the s.215 PATRIOT Act power and the use of
the FISA 702 power in the PRISM programme can now be explained. The database of 5
years of details of domestic and international calls was used to establish a counter-terrorist
justification (according to the “three hops" principle). A second database was then checked
of a directory the NSA maintains of telephone numbers believed to belong to Americans. If
that check indicated the number was probably n_ot that of an American, then the contents
of that telephone call could be listened to with any further authorisation, under the FISA
702 law. Otherwise, if the number seemed probably that of an American, a further
particular warrant for the interception would have to be obtained (under a different section
of FISA), justifying the intrusion to a much higher legal standard, and with reference to the
circumstances of the individual case.

However a close reading of s.215 shows that an alternative purpose (other than a
connection to terrorism) is “to obtain foreign intelligence information not concerning a
United States person”46. From a non-US perspective this may be an important point which
has not so far featured in any of the analysis made in the US, nor is it clear how this
provision would interact with the already tangled skein of contested legality. However it is a
further illustration of US legislation which discriminates between the protections
afforded by the Constitution to US citizens, and everybody else.

Some remarkable interviews have been given by former NSA Director Gen. Hayden, in
which he stressed that “the Fourth Amendment - that prohibits unreasonable searches and
seizures and requires any warrant to be judicially sanctioned and supported by probable
cause - is not an international treaty"47, and that the US enjoys a “home field advantage" of
untrammelled access to foreign communications routed via US territory, or foreign data
stored there.

 

‘3 Bloom, Stephanie Cooper (2009), What Reallv Is at Stake with the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 and Ideas for
Future Surveillance Reform, Public Interest Law Journal Vol 18:269.

4‘ Congressional Research Service (2007), PL. 110-55, the Protect America Act of 2007: Modifications to the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, August 23, 2007.

‘5 Congressional Research Service (2007), PL. 110-55. the Protect America Act of 2007: Modifications to the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, August 23, 2007 and Congressional Research Service — Liu, Edward C.
(2013), Reauthorizattion of the FISA Amendments Act, 7-5700, R42725, January 2, 2013.

‘5 http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/50/1861
‘7 CBS News 30th June 2013; for further discussion see YOUNG (2003) Op.cit.

 

 

 

2O

