Policy Department C: Citizens’ rights and Constitutional Affairs

being inadvertently targeted by 3.702. Analysts may only proceed to access “content data”
under the 702 power if there is more than a 50% likelihood the target is not American and
located outside the US, because the Fourth Amendment was held not to apply. Otherwise a
particular warrant must be applied for under a different section of FISA.

This shows that the “probable cause” requirement for evidence of a 50% likelihood of
criminality was converted into a 50% probability of nationality. This interpretation was first
visible in a FISA Court of Review (FISCR) decision of 2008, released briefly in redacted
form in 2010, and then apparently withdrawn from the official website (but a copy59 had
been kept by a transparency NGO).

The reasoning of FISCR was that foreign intelligence surveillance of targets
reasonably believed to be outside of the US qualifies for a “special needs”
exception60 to the Fourth Amendment warrant requirement. The constitutionality of
that judgement is being contested in a number of lawsuits brought by US civil liberties
organisations, because this “coin-flip” criterion implies many unconstitutional searches of
Americans’ communications.

2.3. Data export: false solutions and insufficient safeguards

In order to conclude this section, the author would like to draw the Parliament’s attention
to certain difficulties with current derogations and/or safeguards proposed as solutions to
the implications for EU Citizens underlined above. This subsection aims to highlight the
loopholes and gaps in several mechanisms that have been put in place for data export. In
the author’s view, these mechanisms should not be seen as guarantees for the protection
of EU citizens’ rights.

2.3.1 Safe Harbour, BCRs for processors and Cloud Computing

The EU/US Safe Harbour Agreement of 2000 implemented a process for US companies to
comply with the EU Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of personal data. If a US company
makes a declaration of adherence to the Safe Harbour Principles then an EU Controller may
export data to that company (although a written contract is still required).

Sometimes described as a ’simultaneous unilateral declaration’, the Agreement left
ambiguous whether it covered the situation of remote processing of data inside the US, on
instruction from Controllers inside the EU. Especially in the case of Cloud computing, such
remote processors were most unlikely to be capable of giving effect to the Safe Harbour
Principles, which, the US argued, thus became void. Did the deal still apply, for unrestricted
export of EU data for remote processing under essentially a self-regulatory framework? In
2000, the EU Commission over-ruled objections from civil society and some DPAs, to
conclude a deal.

The US negotiators in the Department of Commerce worked closely with US trade lobbies,
on a series of “FAQs” for US companies to interpret the Agreement to marginalize EU
privacy rights, building in loopholes on such questions as what counted as identifiable data,
refusing rights of access, and avoiding any duty of finality or right-of-deletion. Safe

 

5" This appears to be a different database, a directory, rather than the metadata controversially acquired under
s.215. It is not known how this is compiled (for example from network surveillance) or under what authority, but
evidently it is more than commercial telephone directories.

59 www.fas.org/irp/agency/doi/fisa/fiscro82208.pdf

6° Anzalda, Matthew A. and Gannon, Jonathan W. (2010), In re Directives...: Judicial Recognition of Certain
Warrantless Foreign Intelligence Surveillance (paywall), Texas Law Review, Vol 88:1599 2010.

 

24

