Policy Department C: Citizens' rights and Constitutional Affairs

BCRs-for-processors might sound like a variant of the existing BCRs (for
Controllers), but in actuality they are vastly more risky for Europeans’ privacy.
The strategic risk to EU data sovereignty, which arises directly from the concept of BCRs-
for-processors, is that the global Cloud industry is dominated by software “platforms” from
Microsoft, Google, Amazon, and a few others. Microsoft’s goal for its public-sector sales-
force from 2010 was to compete for every contract for data processing by governments“.
The cost savings for Cloud processing can be massive (sometimes one tenth the cost of
processing “on-premises” by the Controller according to industry marketing claims). The
cost savings are from equipment, overhead, operational staff (increasingly expensive for
leading cyber-security expertise), and the major Cloud providers can take advantage of
economies of scale, and higher average utilization by spreading processing loads across
time-zones globally. Therefore there is already, and will be further, a competitive
imperative to migrate European “on-premises" data to Cloud processing, and so far the EU
has almost no significant indigenous software platforms that can compete (on cost,
features, or reliability) with the leading US providers. The exception to this gloomy picture
is free and open-source software, which has produced powerful Cloud “stacks" competitive
with proprietary software and services.

In this light, BCR-for-processors can be seen as an expedient strategy both for the
Commission and for Data Protection Authorities (DPAs) who wish to maintain the
semblance of legal control over EU data, and for the Cloud providers who find the existing
EU Data Protection regime generally inconvenient, especially for tax purposes“. The
Commission promoted the legal status of the BCR-for-processors concept in the text of the
new draft Regulation”. Subsequently, national DPAs would have no alternative but to
accept their validity once issued. So far, only a few dozen of the existing Controller BCRs
have been approved“, and the standard of compliance already is not reassuring".

2.3.2. Model Contracts

From 2001 the EU Commission drafted approved “model" clauses for inclusion in contracts
both for Controllers and Processors located outside the EU, intended to guarantee privacy
rights for individuals comparable to those they would have if the data remained inside the
EU.

The conceptual flaw in this general approach is the supposition that computer
systems can be “audited” to guarantee the three essential requirements of
information security: Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability. Whilst integrity73
and availability of data are technically and logically verifiable properties, confidentiality is
not. It is impossible to know with certainty whether either an “insider” or external
unauthorised party has seen or copied data. Even if data is encrypted with a

 

58 The author was Chief Privacy Adviser to Microsoft's forty National Technology Officers (in charge of government
liaison) until 2011, and received special sales training emphasizing the Cloud goal of competing for all government
business, irrespective of the sensitivity of the data. On querying whether this was a mistake, the goal was
reaffirmed.

59 Large US Internet companies tend to “forum-shop" for MS with low-tax and low-privacy regimes. If these do not
coincide, corporate attorney must draft onerously complex contracts to comply with the technicalities of “model"
contracts

7° BCRs (Art.43) are no longer categorized as a “derogation" (Art.44), see: European Commission (2012), Proposal
for a General Data Protection Regulation, 25.1.2012, COM(2012) 11 final 2012/0011.

7‘ A rough sample of a dozen of these companies showed that most do not provide the actual BCR terms online as
required.

72 The author filed a test complaint to the Luxembourg DPA about lack of any knowledge about BCRs by PayPal’s
privacy support staff (PayPal cannot comply with the terms of the BCR if their staff are unaware even of its
existence or obligations). Despite several reminders, after one year there is still no news of the outcome of the
investigation.

73 To check integrity, a “hash function" is computed over the data which functions as a verifiable “fingerprint".

26

