The US surveillance programmes and their impact on EU citizens' fundamental rights

mathematically strong cipher, the algorithm implementation may have software defects, or
the key may be leaked or stolen secretly.

The revelations about PRISM dramatically illustrate the folly of this legal
stratagem. No force of law operating in civil cases on private parties can guarantee
privacy rights in the face of an adversary such as the NSA trying to breach them, and
operating lawfully in its own terms.

Clause.5(d)174 provided that the processor had to tell the EU exporter about any “legally
binding request” for data unless that was prohibited, such as a prohibition under criminal
law to preserve the confidentiality of a criminal investigation. The wording “such as" invites
a reading that national security laws a fortiori override any contractual obligation. Although
the EU retained powers to terminate the transfers, this required a basis of evidence to do
so, and thus the structural temptation for turning a blind-eye was incorporated.

Every organizational actor has an incentive to turn a blind-eye under these arrangements.
The Commission so they can maintain “high standards" of data protection are observed,
DPAs so as not to expose their technical limits and exhaust their limited resources in
expensive legal actions, Member States whose security hierarchies benefit from access to
US counter-terror information, and business in EU and the US who simply want to transact
without awkward questions of state mass-surveillance continually arising. Even EU civil
society75 seemed quiescent since ECHELON, and has mostly focussed on consumer rights76
instead of meaningfully questioning the implications for Fundamental Rights and
sovereignty in commercial data-flows to the US.

As a legal mechanism for guaranteeing rights and obtaining damages for poor
security or privacy practices, such contracts (and their “model” clauses) have
proved useless in so far as they have not given rise to litigation. In most situations
where an EU Controller might want to obtain monetary damages from a Third Country
processor/controller, the reputation damage they could suffer in the marketplace (e.g. from
a data breach becoming known) would be very unlikely to be recouped. In theory, this
disincentive would be removed by the new draft Regulations’ requirement77 to notify DPAs
of data breaches, but DPAs have signalled that they will not necessarily require data
subjects to be informed (and thus effectively make the incident public knowledge), partly in
order to shield Controllers from disproportionate reputation damage. When disputes are
settled out of court without publicity, it undercuts the function that contract litigation would
perform, of informing Controllers about the reliability of those to whom they might export
data. Data subjects of course have no idea when their rights may have been infringed
under this approach.

 

7‘ Commission decision of 27 December 2001 on standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to
processors established in third countries, under Directive 95/46/EC (2002/16/EC).

75 The notable exception is the Chaos Computer Club of Germany.

75 With promising exceptions such as the short-lived International Campaign Against Mass Surveillance of 2005
(website now defunct — but a copy preserved M), and the generally high level of civil society vigilance in
Germany, which must be taken as read for avoidance of repetition

77.The current breach notification requirement under the revised e-Privacy Directive only applies to
telecommunications companies and Internet Services Providers, not to information society services provided
through websites like social networks and search engines and general data Controllers.

27

