Policy Department C: Citizens’ rights and Constitutional Affairs

INTRODUCTION

Background

This Briefing note aims at providing the LIBE Committee with background and contextual
information on PRISM/FISA/NSA activities and US surveillance programmes and their
impact on EU citizens’ fundamental rights, including privacy and data protection.

On June 5th the Washington Post and The Guardian published a secret order made under
s.215 of the PATRIOT Act requiring the Verizon telephone company to give the NSA details
of all US domestic and international phone calls, and “on an ongoing basis”. On June 6th the
two newspapers revealed the existence of an NSA programme codenamed PRISM that
accessed data from leading brands of US Internet companies. By the end of the day a
statement from Adm. Clapper (Director of NSA) officially acknowledged the PRISM
programme and that it relied on powers under the FI SA Amendments Act (FAA) 2008 3.702
(aka §1881a). On June 9‘“ Edward Snowden voluntarily disclosed his identity and a film
interview with him was released.

In the European Parliament resolution of 4 July 2013 on the US National Security Agency
surveillance programme, MEPs expressed serious concern over PRISM and other
surveillance programmes and strongly condemned spying on EU official representatives and
called on the US authorities to provide them with full information on these allegations
without further delay. Inquiries by the Commission‘, Art.29 Working Partyz, and a few MS
Parliaments are also in progress.

The problem of transnational mass surveillance and democracy3

Snowden’s revelations about PRISM show that Cyber mass-surveillance at the transnational
level induces systemic breaches of fundamental rights. These breaches lead us to question
the scale of transnational mass surveillance and its implications for our democracies.

“Our government in its very nature, and our open society in all its instinct,
under the Constitution and the Bill of Rights automatically outlaws intelligence
organizations of the kind that have developed in police states” (Allen Dulles, 1963)4

" There’s been spying for years, there’s been surveillance for years, and so
forth, I’m not going to pass judgement on that, it’s the nature of our society"

(Eric Schmidt, Executive chairman of Google, 2013)

These two quotations are distinct in time by 50 years. They differ in the answers but
address the same central question: how far can democratic societies continue to exist in
their very nature, if intelligence activities include massive surveillance of populations? For
Eric Schmidt and according to most of the media reports in the world, the nature of society

 

‘ European Commissioner - Reding, Viviane (2013), Letter to the Attorney General, Ref. Ares (2013)1935546 -
10/06/2013, Brussels, 10 June 2013

2 Article 29 Working Party, Letter from the Chairman to Mrs Reding regarding the PRISM program 13“1 August
2013

3 Preface by Prof.Didier Bigo

4 Dulles, Allen Welsh (1963), The Craft of Intelligence, New York: Harper&Row, p.257.

