The US surveillance programmes and their impact on EU citizens' fundamental rights

has changed. Technologies of telecommunication, including mobile phones, Internet,
satellites and more generally all data which can be digitalised and integrated into platforms,
have given the possibilities of gathering unprecedented amount of data, to keep them, to
organise them, to search them. If the technologies exist, then they have to be used: “it is
not possible to go against the flow”. Therefore it is not a surprise to discover that
programmes run by intelligence services use these techniques at their maximum
possibilities and in secrecy. The assumption is that if everyone else with these technical
capabilities uses them, then we should too. If not, it would be naivety or even worse: a
defeat endangering the national security of a country by letting another country benefit
from the possibilities opened by these technologies.

However, should we have to live with this extension of espionage to massive surveillance of
populations and accept it as “a fact"? Fortunately, totalitarian regimes have more or less
disappeared before the full development of theses capacities. Today, in democratic
regimes, when these technologies are used, they are limited on purpose and are mainly
centred on antiterrorism collaboration, in order to prevent attempts of attacks. According to
Intelligence Services worldwide, these technologies are not endangering civil liberties; they
are the best way to protect the citizen from global terrorism. Intelligence services screen
suspicious behaviours and exchange of information occurs at the international level. Only
“real suspects” are, in principle, under surveillance. From this perspective, far from being a
“shame", the revelations of programmes like PRISM could be seen as a proof of a good
level of collaboration, which has eventually to be enhanced in the future against numerous
forms of violence.

In front of this “recital" given by the most important authorities of the different intelligence
services and the antiterrorism agencies in the US, in the UK, in France, and at the EU level,
it is critical to discuss the supposedly new nature of our societies. The impact of
technological transformations in democratic societies, how to use these technologies as
resources for both information exchange and competition over information (a key element
of a globalised world), what are the rights of the different governments in processing them:
these are the core questions.

As stated by Allen Dulles above, justifications given by intelligence services work in favour
of a police state and against the very nature of an open society living in democratic
regimes. Proponents of an open society insist that, against the previous trend, technologies
ought not to drive human actions; they have to be used in reasonable ways and under the
Rule of Law. The mass scaling has to be contained. Constitutional provisions have to be
applied, and the presumption of innocence is applicable for all human beings (not only
citizens). If suspicions exist, they have to be related to certain forms of crime, and not
marginal behaviours or life styles. Hence, what is at stake here is not the mechanisms by
which antiterrorism laws and activities have to be regulated at the transatlantic level, even
if it is a subset of the question. It is not even the question of espionage activities between
different governments. It is the question of the nature, the scale, and the depth of
surveillance that can be tolerated in and between democracies.

Snowden’s revelations highlight numerous breaches of fundamental rights. This affects in
priority all the persons whose data have been extracted via surveillance of communications,
digital cables or cloud computing technologies, as soon as they are under a category of
suspicion, or of some interest for foreign intelligence purposes. However, all these persons
are not protected in the same way, especially if they are not US citizens. The EU citizen is
therefore particularly fragile in this configuration connecting US intelligence
services, private companies that provide services at the global level and the
ownership they can exercise over their data. It is clear that if EU citizens do not have
the same level of protections as the US citizens, because of the practices of the US
intelligence services and the lack of effective protections, they will become the first victims
of these systems. Freedom of thought, opinion, expression and of the press are cardinal
values that have to be preserved. Any citizen of the EU has the right to have a private life,

