TOP SECRETNCOMINT/lNOFORN/lz0320108

(S) NSA Technical Analysis of the Facility

(S) NSA may also apply technical analysis concerning the facility from which it intends to
acquire foreign intelligence information to assist it in making determinations concerning the
location of the person at whom NSA intends to direct surveillance. For example, NSA may
examine the following types of information:

(S) For telephone numbers:

a) identify the country code of the telephone number, and determine what it indicates
about the person‘s location.

13) Review commercially available and NSA telephone numbering databases for
indications of the type of telephone being used (e. g. landline, Wireless mobile,
satellite, etc), information that may provide an understanding of the location of the
target.

(S) For electronic communications accounts/addresses/identiﬁers:

Review NBA content repositories and internet communications data repositories (which
contain, among other things, Internet communications metadata) for previous Internet
activity. This information may contain network layer (e. g., Internet Protocol addresses)
or machine identiﬁer (e. g, Media Access Control addresses) information, which NSA
compares to information contained in NSA's communication network databases and
commercially available Internet Protocol address registration information in order to
determine the location of the target.

(S) Assessment of the NonéUnited States Person Status of the Target

(S) In many cases, the information that NSA examines in order to determine whether a target is
reasonably believed to be located outside the United States may also bear upon the non-United
States person status of that target. For example, lead information provided by an intelligence or
law enforcement service of a foreign government may indicate not only that the target is located
in a foreign country, but that the target is a citizen of that or another foreign country. Similarly,
information contained in NSA databases, including repositories of information collected by NSA
and by other intelligence agencies, may indicate that the target is a non-United States person.

(S) Furthermore, in order to prevent the inadvertent targeting of a United States person, NSA
maintains records of telephone numbers and electronic communications accounts/addresses/
identiﬁers that NSA has reason to believe are being used by United States persons. Prior to
targeting, a particular telephone number or electronic communi cations account/address/identiiier
will be compared against those records in order to ascertain Whether NSA has reason to believe
that telephone number or electronic communications aceount/address/identiﬁer is being used by
a United States person.

TOP SECRETHCOMINTI/NOEDEN/@03520108
3

