T-I-F' IZE-I'FLETI_-'!3I_-'_-'F'.EL TO USE. F"'-'E"J.'

Bowright! {S.-".-"Sl.-".-"FIEL) l hunt people who hack routers (part 5) E {hide-1'

2012.12.14- 01: no pm
Do not reuse

_ _ Entryr tags: cne. discoroute. router. sigdev
this Image!

 

IITSHSIHRELII Happy Friday my esteemed and valued Intelligence Community colleagues! There has
been a topic of conversation that has started to rumble beneath the surface of the |Cyber—scene
lately. it's about router hackingIIfor this post. I'm not talking about your home ADSL router. I'm
talking about bigger routers. such as CiscosﬂuniperslHuaweis used by ISPs for their
infrastructural. Hacking routers has been good business for us and our S-eyes partners for some
time now. but it is becoming more apparent that other nation states are honing their skill: and
joining the scene. Before I get into it too much. let's go over some of the things that someone
could do ifthey hack a router:

Di"1"ou could add credentials. allowing yourselfto log in any time you choose

Di"i'bu could addi'change routing rules

* 'T'bu could set up a packet capture capability..imagine running Wireshark on an ISP's
infrastructure router...|ike a local listening post for any credentials being passed over the wirel!)

* 'Tbu could weaken any 'v"PN encryption capabilities on the router. forcing it to create easily
decryptable tunnels

Di"1"ou could install a dorked version of the Dperating System with whatever functionality you want
pre-built in

IITSHSIHRELII There are a plethora of things you could do once you get ENE access to a
router...suffice it to say. getting access to a router is very good for the actor. and very bad for
the victim. So. we would obviously .Lﬂ'v'E to know which countriesiiactors have access to what other
routers {especially if it's our routers]. Then the question comes down to:

"How would you identify the fact that someone has ENE access to a router?"

[TSHSIHRELJ There are a handful of ways that you can tell if anyone has access to your router.
Like. if you are free to log into your own router. you could frequently log in. run diagnostic
commands. pull the IDS for. more generically. the operating system file]. hash that file. and
compare that to a list of known-good hashes. But. how would you find out if someone has ENE
access to a router that you don't own? How would you identify it if the Chinese had access to a
router in Eimbabwe? If all you have is passive network trafﬁc that we've collected in SIGINT. how
would you do it?

The rest of this post relates to NSA's methods to detect when countries hack routers. We
have redacted it to prevent helping those countries improve their ability to hack foreign
routers and spy on people undetected.

