the outskirts of Darmstadty Germany. To the passing Ll EEC
motorist; the facility looks like many ofthe other
random US. government facilities in the area; with
one exception. One can almost hear a discernable
buzz of activity from the analysts of the EEC
executing gueriesy authoring fingerprints; and
consuming metadata garnered from KKEYSCDRE [KKS]. In the past three months;
the EEC has tripled; and even guadrupled in some cases; the number of'gueries
performed; the number of" items pushed to PINWALEJ and the number of sessions
viewed. And these numbers continue to grow.*

 

[SHRELI What has been the cause ofthis flurry of success? The EEG 'points to a
recent XKS training blitz in support of the Analytic Modenlization Outreach
Campaign to encourage discover]; In early March; EEC SIGUIEI.»r analysts held
an KKS Circuit Training event designed to expose analysts to five; Ell-minute
one-on-one sessions in a circuit-type environment. This "speed dating" for KKS
consisted of five stations covering topics titled "Intro to the GUI and Basic

Queries; "Metadata Setup and Manipulation" "Content and Manipulation of
Results" "Introduction to Fingerprints" and "Introduction to Microplugins."

[SHREL] Dver four days; 68- students were walked through these topics with five
different instructors; able to ask specific guestions and get more comfortable with
the tool. "Everyone likes a new toy and there was a lot of excitement about it. Thev
will at least try it against their target and see what they will get out of it" said
_one of the instructors and a. SIGDIEIur Analyst embedded in Africa

Division.

[SHEIHRELJI With traditional targeting; analysts cast their nets wide into the murky
waters of network trafﬁc and haul in anything that gets caught in the net. We are
like Forrest Gump on his shrimping boat off the coast ofAlabama pulling in a boot;
toilet seat; seaweed; and there they are... three shrimp! We burn up a lot of
resources getting those shrimp; those reportable documents or metadata used to
expand target knowledge; and we deal with tons oftoilet seats; the spam and other
junk. Then; we repeat the same process and hopefully catch enough "shrimp" to
have ourselves a little cocktail. KKS has become so important because with it;
analysts can downsize their gigantic shrimping nets to tiny, handheld goldfish-sized
nets and merely dip them into the oceans of data; working smarter and scooping
out exactly what they want.

[UHFDUD] And a short; two-hour class is an easy gamble of time for the hopes of
being able to work smarter and more efﬁciently. EEC analysts have been trading in
their old nets for new ones and are thrilled with their catches. Discovery can only
occur ifpeople are willing to try new things; and more of our analysts are getting
comfortable with leaping into the relatively unknown world ofKKS.

[UHFDUD] "The first time I saw KKSJ I said; 'Whoa!!' It is intimidating because you
I I I I _—

open 1t up and you see all these guer1es and ﬁelds" said— "We took the

students from that response to being able to approach it and navigate around in it.

They see it differently now and know it's not a seven-headed dragon." This gentle

introduction has definitely enabled analysts to ease into KKS and get more

comfortable; and with that it has radically changed the overall mentality towards

 

2 of-s

