DOCID: 4086222

 
 

(U) Inspector 8.1. (U) The Inspector General shall:
General
a. (U) Conduct regular inspections and perform general oversight of
NSAJCSS activities to ensure compliance with this USSID.

b. (U) Establish procedures for reporting by NSA/CSS signals
intelligence elements oftheir activities and practices for oversight
purposes.

0. (U) Report to the D] RNSA/C HC SS. annually by 3| October.
concerning NSA/CSS compliance with this USSID.

d. (U) Report quarterly with the DIRNSA/CHCSS and General Counsel
to the President's Intelligence Oversight Board through the Assistant to
the Secretary of Defense (Intelligence Oversight).

 

(U) General 8.2. (U) The General Counsel shall:
Counsel
a. (U) Provide legal advice and assistance to all elements of the USSS
regarding SIGINT activities. Requests tbr legal advice on any aspect of
these procedures may be sent by CRITICOMM. secure email. or by _
NSA/C‘SS secure telephone 963 -3121. STE or-n'e'n'.” '(b)(3)-P.L. 86-36
secure (301) 688-505.

 

 

 

 

b. (U) Prepare and process all applications for Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court orders and requests for Attorney General approvals
required by these procedures.

c. (U) Advise the l_C_i in inspections and oversight of USSS activities.

d. (U) Review and assess for legal implications as requested by the
DIRNSAKCHCSS. Deputy Director. l_(_i_ Signals Intelligence Director. or
their designees. all new major requirements and internally generated
USSS activities.

e. (U) Advise USSS personnel of new legislation and case law that may
affect USSS missions. functions. operations. activities. or practices.

f. (U) Report as required to the Attorney General and the President's
Intelligence Oversight Board and provide copies of such reports to the
DIRNSAJC HC SS and affected agency elements.

g. (U) Process requests from any DoD intelligence component for authority to
use signals as described in Procedure 5. Part 5. of DoD 5240. l -R, for periods in
excess of 90 days in the development. test. or calibration of ELECTRONIC
SURVEILLANCE equipment and other equipment that can intercept

commu ni cat ion s.

 

