DOCID: 4086222

possession over which the UNITED STATES exercises sovereignty.

 

(U) United States 9.18. (U) UNITED STATES PERSON:
Person
a. (U) A citizen ofthe UNITED STATES.

b. (U) An alien lawﬁllly admitted for permanent residence in the
UNITED STATES.

c. (U) Unincorporated groups and associations a substantial number of
the members of which constitute a. or b. above. or

d. (U) CORPORATIONS incorporated in the UNITED STATES.
including US. ﬂag nongovernmental aircraft or vessels. but not
including those entities which are openly acknowledged by a foreign
government or governments to be directed and controlled by them.

e. (U) The following guidelines apply in determining whether a person
is a US. PERSON:

(I) (U) A person known to be currently in the United States will
be treated as a US. PERSON unless that person is reasonably
identified as an alien who has not been admitted for permanent
residence or if the nature of the person's communications or
other indicia in the contents or circumstances of such
communications give rise to a reasonable belief that such
person is not a US PERSON.

(2) (U) A person known to be currently outside the UNITED
STATES. or whose location is not known. will not be treated as
a U. S. PERSON unless such person is reasonably identified as
such or the nature of the person's communications or other
indicia in the contents or circumstances of such
communications give rise to a reasonable belief that such
person is a US. PERSON.

(3) (U) A person known to be an alien admitted for permanent
residence may be assumed to have lost status as a US.
PERSON if the person leaves the UNITED STATES and it is
known that the person is not in compliance with the
administrative formalities provided by law (8 U.S.C. Section
l203) that enable such persons to reenter the UNITED STATES
without regard to the provisions of law that would otherwise
restrict an alien's entry into the UNITED STATES. The failure
to follow the statutory procedures provides a reasonable basis to
conclude that such alien has abandoned any intention of
maintaining status as a permanent resident alien.

 

