DOCID: 4086222

   

( 1) Electronic surveillance of the target may be monitored contemporaneously. recorded automatic-ally. or
both. (U)

(2) Personnel who monitor the electronic surveillance shall exercise reasonable judgement in determining
whether particular information acquired must be minimized and shall destroy inadvertently acquired
communications ofor concerning a United States person at the earliest practicable point in the processing cycle
at which such communication can be identified either as clearly not relevant to the authorized purpose of the
surveillance (i.e., the communication does not contain foreign intelligence information) or as containing
evidence of a crime which may be disseminated under these procedures. “(LS-€60)-

(3) Communications of or concerning United States persons that may be related to the authorized purpose of
the surveillance may be forwarded to analytic personnel responsible for producing intelligence information
from the collected data. Such communications or information may be retained and disseminated only in
accordance with Sections 4. 5. and 6 of these procedures. {-6)-

(4) Magnetic tapes or other storage media that contain acquired communications may be processed. “($966?

(5) Each communication shall be reviewed to determine whether it is a domestic or foreign communication
to or from the targeted premises and is reasonably believed to contain foreign intelligence information or
evidence of a crime. Only such communications may be processed. All other communications may be retained
or disseminated only in accordance with Sections 5 and 6 of these procedures. f5=€€9+

(6) Magnetic tapes or other storage media containing foreign communications may be scanned by computer
to identify and select communications for analysis. Computer selection terms used for scanning. such as
telephone numbers key words or phrases. or other discriminators. shall not include Uu'ted States person names
or identiﬁers and shall be limited to those selection terms reasonably likely to identi
hat are authorized for...i.ntent.i.onal...c-ollectio11.-quer...Exec-LIIive____QI‘d§!f.. ”3.3.3 Ilsalenisntlns

procedures. -(-S=6€6')- (5)0)

 

 

 

(7’) Further processing. retention and dissemination of foreign communications shall be made in accordan ce
with Sections 4. 6. and "f. as applicable. below. Further processing. storage and dissemination ofinadvertently
acquired domestic communications shall be made in accordance with Sections 4 and 5 below. {8-999}—

(d) U. S. Persons Employed bV the Foreign Power {-6}-

Communications of or concerning United States persons employed by a foreign power may be used and
retained as otherwise provided in these procedures except that:

(1) Such United States persons shall not be identified in connection with any communication that the person
places or receives on behalf of another unless the identiﬁcation is permitted under Section 6 of these

procedures; and

(2) personal communications of United States persons that could not be foreign intelligence may only be

retained. used. or disseminated in accordance with Section 5 of these procedures. (-S-GGQ-t -- (b)(1)
__ . " (b)(3)-P.L. 86-36
(e) Destruction of Raw Data {-6}- . -- (b)(3)-50 USC 30240)

 

(b)(3)-18 use 793

Fortirtirirticatiorts and other information includinrr tha reduced to graphic or "hard copy‘T form such as
"shall be reviewed for retention in accordance with the
standards set forth 1n these procedures. Communrcatrons and other information, in any form, that do not meet

 

 

 

 

