DOCID: 4086222

 
   

.1

 

accordance with Section 106(b) of the Act and crimes reporting procedures approved by the Secretary of
Defense and the Attorney General. (U)

SECTION 7 - OTHER FOREIGN COMMUNICATIONS (U)

 

Foreign communications of or concerning a non-United States person may be retained. used. and
disseminated in any form in accordance with other applicable law. regulation, and policy. (U)

SECTION 8 - COLLABORATION WITH FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS {SPECS}

(a) The sharing or exchange of foreign communications governed by these procedures with signals
intelligence authorities ofcollaborating foreign governments (Second Parties) may be undertaken by the NSA
only with the written assurance of the Second Party that the use ofthose foreign communications will be subject
to the retention and dissemination provisions of these procedures. (8-666)

(b) Domestic communications and communications to or from United States persons shall not be shared with

Second Parties. (-S-GGQ}

(c) Foreign plain text communications may be shared with Second Parties ifthey are ﬁrst reviewed by NSA
analysts. who shall remove references to United States persons that are not necessary to understand or assess the
foreign intelligence information contained therein. (-S-GGG')

(d) Foreign enciphered or encoded communications may be shared with Second Palties without such prior
review. provided that at least annually a representative sampling ofthose shared communications that can be
deciphered or decoded is reviewed by the NSA to ensure that any references therein to United States persons are
necessary to understand or assess the foreign intelligence information being disseminated. Corrective measures
with respect to each target or line shall be undertaken as necessary to maintain compliance with the above
dissemination standard. The results of each review shall be made available to the Attorney General or a

designee. (8-6693

Approved by Attorney General Janet Reno on | July |997

 

 

