DOCID:

4086222

     

.'.I .r

(1) (U) The proposed test is coordinated with the
NSAKCSS General Counsel;

(2) (U) The test is limited in scope and duration to
that necessary to determine the capability of the
equipment;

(3) (U) No particular person istar‘geted without consent
and it is not reasonable to obtain the consent of the
persons incidentally subjected to the surveillance; and

(4) (U) The test does not exceed 90 calendar days.

c. (U) Where the test involves communications other than those
identiﬁed in paragraph D2. la. and a test period longer than 90
days is required. the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act
requires that the test be approved by the Attorney General. Such
proposals and plans shall be submitted by USSS elements
through the General Counsel. NSA/CSS. to the
DIRNSAXCHCSS for transmission to the Attorney General The
test proposal shall state the requirement for an extended test
involving such communications the nature of the test? the
organization that will conduct the test. and the proposed
disposition ofany signals or communications acquired during the
test.

D22. (U) The content of any communication other than communications
between non-US. persons outside the United States which are acquired during a
test and evaluation shall be:

a. (U) Retained and used only for the purpose of determining the
capability of the electronic equipment;

b. (U) Disclosed only to persons conducting or evaluating the test; and

c. (U) Destroyed before or immediately upon completion of the testing.

D23. (U) The technical parameters ofa communication. such as frequency.
modulation. and time of activity ofacquired electronic signals- may be retained
and used for test reporting or collection -avoidance purposes Such parameters
may be disseminated to other DoD intelligence components and other entities
authorized to conduct electronic surveillance. provided such dissemination and
use are limited to testing. evaluation. or collection -avoidance purposes.

 

USSID SP0018

 

