DOCID: 4086222

ANNEx E — (U) SEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS

(U) Procedures
for Safeguarding
the Rights of U.S.
Persons

SECTION I — (U) PROCEDURES

E | . I. (U) This Annex provides the procedures for safeguarding the rights ofU.S.
persons when conducting SIGINT search and development activities.

El.2. (Uf/‘FBHBj'The USSS may conduct search and development activities with
respect to signals throughout the radio spectrum under the following limitations:

a. (U) Signals may be collected only for the purpose ofidentifying those signals
that:

(1) (U) May contain information related to the production of foreign
intelligence or counterintelligence;

(2) U) Are enciphered or appear to contain secret meaning;

(3) (U) Are necessary to assure efﬁcient signals intelligence collection or
to avoid the collection ofunwanted signals; or

(4) (-Si‘f'S-l'h‘R'Eb) Reveal vulnerabilities of United States communications
security.

b. (-Sn‘S'l'H'R-E'Ij Communications originated or intended for receipt in the United
States or originated or intended for receipt by U‘ S. persons shall be processed in
accordance with Section 5 of USSID SPUUIS. provided that information
necessary for cataloging the constituent elements of the signal environment may
be processed and retained if such information does not identify a U.S. person
Information revealing a United States communications security vulnerability may
be retained.

c. (-S-i‘a‘S-b’i‘R-E-lj Information necessary for cataloging the constituent
elements of the signal environment may be disseminated to the extent
such information does not identify U.S. persons. Communications
equipment nomenclature may be disseminated. Information that reveals a
vulnerability to United States communications security may be
disseminated to the appropriate communications security authorities.

d. (U) All information obtained in the process of search and development
that appears to be oftbreign intelligence value may be forwarded to the
proper analytic ofﬁce within NSA/CSS for processing and dissemination
in accordance with relevant portions ofthis USSID.

 

 

