Background

WSince the tragedy of 9/1 1, the Intelligence Community has developed an
array of capabilities to detect, identify and disrupt terrorist plots against the United States and its
interests. Detecting threats by exploiting terrorist communications has been, and continues to be,
one of the critical tools in that effort. Above all else, it is imperative that we have a capability to
rapidly identify any terrorist threats emanating from within the United States.

WPﬁor to the attacks of 9/1 1, the National Security Agency (NSA) intercepted
and transcribed seven calls from hijacker Khalid al—Mihdhar to a facility associated with an al
Qa’ida safehouse in Yemen. However, NSA’s access point overseas did not provide the
technical data indicating the location from where al-Mihdhar was calling. Lacking the
originating phone number, NSA analysts concluded that al—Mihdhar was overseas. In fact, a1—
Mihdhar was calling from San Diego, California. According to the 9/11 Commission Report
(pages 269-272):

"Investigations 0r interrogation of them [Khalid al-Mihdhar, etc], and investigation of
their travel and ﬁnancial activities could have yielded evidence of connections to other
participants in the 9/11 plot. The simple fact of their detention could have derailed the

plan. In any case, the opportunity did not arise. "

(SEW Today, under Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court authorization
pursuant to the “business records” authority of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA)
(commonly referred to as “Section 215”), the government has developed a program to close the
gap that allowed al-Mihdhar to plot undetected within the United States while communicating
with a known terrorism target overseas. This and similar programs operated pursuant to FISA
provide valuable intelligence information.

(U) USA PATRIOT Act reauthorization legislation currently pending in both the House
and the Senate would alter, among other things, language in two parts of FISA: Section 215 and
the F ISA “pen register/trap and trace” (or “pen-trap”) authority. Absent legislation, Section 215
will expire on December 31, 2009, along with the so—called “lone wolf” provision and roving
wiretaps (which this document does not address). The FISA pen—trap authority does not expire,
but the pending legislation in the Senate and House includes amendments of this provision.

-(IS#S-L#N-F)— The Section 215 and pen—trap authorities are used by the US. Government
in selected cases to acquire signiﬁcant foreign intelligence information that cannot otherwise be
acquired either at all or on a timely basis. Any US. person information that is acquired is
subject to strict, court—imposed restrictions on the retention, use, and dissemination of such
information and is also subject to strict and frequent audit and reporting requirements.

ﬁSv‘l—SWF) The largest and most signiﬁcant uses of these authorities are to support two
critical and highly sensitive intelligence collection programs under which NSA collects and
anal es lar e amounts of transactional data obtained from telecommunications roviders

 

Although these programs have been briefed to
2

