Checks and Balances

FISA Court Oversight

-(-T-S+/-S-lv’-FNF-)- To conduct these bulk collection programs, the government has obtained
orders from several different FISA Court judges based on legal standards set forth in Section 215
and the FISA pen-trap provision. Before obtaining any information from a telecommunication
service provider, the government must establish, and the FISA Court must conclude, that the
information is relevant to an authorized investigation. In addition, the government must comply
with detailed “minimization procedures” required by the F ISA Court that govern the retention
and dissemination of the information obtained. Before an NSA analyst may query bulk records,
they must have reasonable articulable suspicion — referred to as “RAS” — that the number or e-
mail address the submit is associated with

   
 
 
 
 
 

The
RAS requirement is designed to protect against the indiscriminate querying of the collected data
so that onl information ertaining to one of the foreign powers listed in the relevant Court order
— lS prov1!e§ to !!! personnel !or lurtEer mteiilgence analysrs. i lere are also
limits on how long the collected data can be retained (5 years in the Section 215 program, and
4V2 years in the pen-trap program).

 

Congressional Oversight

(U) These programs have been briefed to the Intelligence and Judiciary Committees, to
include hearings, brieﬁngs, and, with respect to the Intelligence Committees, visits to NSA. In
addition, the Intelligence Committees have been fully briefed on the compliance issues discussed
below.

Compliance Issues

WThere have been a number of technical compliance problems and human
implementation errors in these two bulk collection programs, discovered as a result of
Department of Justice reviews and internal NSA oversight. However, neither the Department,
NSA nor the FISA Court has found any intentional or bad—faith violations. The problems
generally involved the implementation of highly sophisticated technology in a complex and ever-
changing communications environment which, in some instances, resulted in the automated tools
operating in a manner that was not completely consistent with the speciﬁc terms of the Court’s
orders. In accordance with the Court’s rules, upon discovery, these inconsistencies were
reported as compliance incidents to the FISA Court, which ordered appropriate remedial action.
The incidents, and the Court’s responses, were also reported to the Intelligence Committees in
great detail. The Committees, the Court and the Executive Branch have responded actively to
the incidents. The Court has imposed additional safeguards. In response to compliance
problems, the Director of NSA also ordered “end-to-cnd” reviews of the Section 215 and pen-
trap collection programs, and created a new position, the Director of Compliance, to help ensure
the integrity of future collection. In early September of 2009, the Director of NSA made a
presentation to the FISA Court about the steps taken to address the compliance issues. All

4
W

