UK TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT

OPC—M/TECHB/61

A potential technique to deanonymise users of the
TOR network

OPC-MCR, GCHQ
13 June 2011

1 Introduction

The Onion Router (TOR) [1] is used by individuals and organisations that want to hide
the originating IP address of their communications.

A TOR client chooses the circuit their trafﬁc will follow through a set of TOR routers
before contacting the destination server. The ﬁrst hop after the client is to the subset of
the routers designated as “guard” nodes. The ﬁnal hop in the TOR network is from a
subset of routers which choose to be an “exit" node. There can be any number of TOR
routers between the guard and exit nodes but typical clients choose to have one router.

There are many features that mean it is hard to track traffic through the TOR
network:

0 Traffic is encrypted in multiple layers between the client node and each TOR
router (leading to the “Onion” analogy). Hence data between each TOR router
has different ciphertexts. Unencrypted traffic is only seen between the exit node
and destination server.

0 TOR splits all traffic up into standard size “cells”. Therefore packet sizes can not
be used to follow traffic.

0 Each connection between TOR routers will typically multiplex many circuits’ traffic
effectively masking any particular user’s traffic.

0 To ensure fairness of service TOR has a per—circuit rate—limiting store—and—forward
buffer in each router. This buffer tends to flatten timing features in traffic. [3]

The aim of this work is to ﬁnd the client IP address associated with unencrypted
traffic between an exit node and a destination server. This paper achieves this aim given
the following constraints:

0 we must own the exit node. This constraint means that we can demultiplex traffic
by TOR circuit and thus get a cleaner signal. See section 5 for more detail.

3

This information is exempt under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOIA) and may be exempt under other UK
Refer any FOIA queries to GCHQ

UK TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT

