capability to MISDIMCE communities.

I TEMPCIRA 'is the codeword for CCI-lCIs internet buffer business capability as a whole — which
is the ability to loosely promote a ‘34: of trafﬁc across CCI-lCIs SSE access into a repository
which will keep the content {and 'its associated metadata} forjperiods oftime {approximately
3 days for-content and up to 30 days for metadata} to allow retrospective analysis and
forwarding to follow on systems.

- TEMPCIRA as a capability 'is agnostic of'the technologies usedto promote thattrafﬁc and to
store that trafﬁc and so should nothe 'used as a codeword for the individual components {e.g
XKS. M‘UR etc}.

- At the momentthe components include. amongst others, CCHCI SSE. Access, PCIKERFACE
sanitisation. XKS {in various conﬁgurations} and 'it will include MEIR inthe very near future.

I TEMPCIRA also covers the management of'the rules used to promote trafﬁc into the internet
buffer capability.

I TEMPCIRA 'is notjprocessing centre speciﬁc. At the momentthere are instances of
TEMPCIRA at all xPC {Namely CPC, CPC and RPCI}. These should be referred to. when
required, as CIPCICPCIRPCI TEMPCIRA

[edit] A bit more detail

TEMPDRA are CCI-lCI's large-scale, Deep Dive deployments on Special Source access {ﬂ}.
Deep Dive XKeyscores work by promoting loose categories of'trafﬁc {e.g.. allweb, email. social.
chat, EA. VPN. VolP...) from the bearers feeding the system and block all the high-volume, low
value trafﬁc {e.g., P2P downloads}. This usually equates to ~30% of'the trafﬁc on the bearer. We
keep the full sessions for 3 working days andthe metadata for 30 days for you to query. using all
the functionality that Keyscore offers to slice and dice the data. The aim 'is to put the best 15% of
our access into TEMPCIRA's, comprising a mix of Deep Dive Keyscores and promotion of data
based on IP subnet ortechnology 'type from across the entire M‘v’R. At the moment. 'users are
able to access dﬁxlﬂCs of data via existing Internet Buffers. This 'is a lot of date! Not only that.
butthe long-running TINTprogram and our initial 3-month operationaltrial of'the CPC Internet
Buffer {the ﬁrst operational Internet Buffer to be deployed} show that every area of ops can get
realbeneﬁt from this capability. especially for target discovery andtarget development. Internet
Buffers are different from TINT in that the latter is purely an experimental. research environment
whereas Internet Buffers canIbe used operationally foriR. Effects. enabling w etc.

 

For a more detailed depiction of' how TEMPCIRA and TINT differs please see here.

[edit] Contacts

 

Name Role
CTE XKS Senior User

MTI SICI NT apps theme lead
Enhanced Discovery Project Manager
Enhanced Discovery XKS SME

 

2of3

