UN CLASSIF IED/lF OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOUNDLESSINFORMANT — Freq uentlv Asked Questions
09-06-2012

 

gU/FOUO) Questions
1) What is BOUNDLESSINFORMANT? What is its purpose?

2) Who are the intended users of the tool?

3) What are the different views?

4) Where do you get your data?

5) Do you have all the data? What data is missing?

6) Why are you showing metadata record counts versus content?

7) Do you distinguish between sustained collect and survey collect?
8) What is the technical architecture for the tool?

9) What are some upcoming features/enhancements?

10) How are new features or views requested and prioritized?

1 1) Why are record counts different from other tools like ASDF and What’s On Cover?
12) Why is the tool NOFORN? Is there a releasable version?

13) How do you compile your record counts for each country?

 

 

 

Note: This document is a work-in-progress and will be updated frequently as additional
questions and guidance are provided. '

1) (U) What is BOUNDLESSINFORlllANT? What is its purpose?
(U//FOUO) BOUNDLESSINFORMANT is a GAO prototype tool for a self-documenting SIGINT
system. The purpose of the tool is to fundamentally shiﬁ the manner in which GAO describes its
collection posture. BOUNDLESSINF 0RMAN T provides the ability to dynamically describe GAO's
collection capabilities (through metadata record counts) with no human intervention and graphically
display the information in a map view, bar chart, or simple table. Prior to
BOUNDLESSINFORMAN T, the method for understanding the collection capabilities of GAO's
assets involved ad hoc surveying of repositories, sites, developers, and/or programs and ofﬁces. By
extracting information ﬁ'om every DNI and DNR metadata record, the tool is able to create a near real-
time snapshot of GAO's collection capability at any given moment. The tool allows users to select a
country on a map and View the metadata volume and select details about the collection against that
country. The tool also allows users to view high level metrics by organization and then drill down to a
more actionable level - down to the program and cover term.

Sample Use Cases
° (U//FOUO) How many records are collected for an organizational unit (e.g. FORNSAT)?

' (U//FOUO) How many records (and what type) are collected against a particular country?
' (U//FOUO) Are there any visible trends for the collection?
' (U/lFOUO) What assets collect against a speciﬁc country? What type of collection?

' (U/IFOUO) What is the ﬁeld of view for a specific site? What countriees does it collect
against? What type of collection?

2) (U) Who are the intended users of the tool?

' (U/IFOUO) Mission and collection managers seeking to understand output characteristics
of a site based on what is being ingested into downstream repositories. ,

' (Ul/FOUO)—Strategic—Managersvseek-ingto~understand~toplevel—metrics-atithe

 

 

organization/ofﬁce level or seeking to answer data calls on NSA collection capability.

BOUNDLESSINFORMANT — FAQ Page 1 o:

 

UNCLASSIFIED//FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

