TOP SECRETNCOMINT/lNOFORN/l20320108

or are extensively used by individuals associated with a foreign power or foreign
tenitory.

H. (S) POST—TARGETING ANALYSIS BY NSA

(S//Sl) After a person has been targeted for acquisition by NSA, NSA will conduct post—
targeting analysis. Such analysis is designed to detect these occasions when a person who when
targeted was reasonably believed to be located outside the United States has since entered the
United States, and will enable NSA to take steps to prevent the intentional acquisition of any
communication as to which the sender and all intended recipients are known at the time of
acquisition to be located in the United States, or the intentional targeting of a person who is
inside the United States. Such analysis may include:

For telephone numbers:

6

Routinely comparing telephone numbers tasked pursuant to these procedures against
information that has been incidentally collected from the Global System for Mobiles
(GSM) Home Location Registers (HLR). These registers receive updates whenever a
GSM phone moves into a new service area. Analysis of this HLR information provides a
primary indicator of a foreign user of a mobile telephone entering the United States.

NSA analysts may analyze content for indications that a foreign target has entered or
intends to enter the United States. Such content analysis will be conducted, according to
analytic and intelligence requirements and priorities. '

For electronic communications accounts/addresses/identiﬁers:

e

Routinely checking all electronic communications accounts/addresses/identiﬁers tasked
pursuant to these procedures against available databases that contain Internet
communications data (including metadata) to determine if an electronic communications
account/address/identiﬁer was accessed from overseas. Such databases contain
connnunications contact information and summaries of communications activity from
NSA signals intelligence collection. The foreign access determination is made based on
comparing the Internet Protocol address associated with the account activity to other
information NSA possesses about geographical area(s) serviced by particular Internet
Protocol addresses. If the IP address associated with the target activity is identiﬁed as a
U.S.—based network gateway (eg, a Hotmail server) or a private Internet Protocol
address, then NSA analysts will be required to perform additional research to determine if
the access was in a foreign country using additional criteria such as machine identiﬁer or
case notation (NSA circuit identiﬁer) of a communications link known to be foreign.
Such databases normally maintain information about such activity for a 12—month period.
This data will be used in an attempt to rule out false positives from U.S—based network
gateways. If the account access is determined to be from a U.S.-based machine, ﬁirther
analytic checks will be performed using content collection to determine if the target has
moved, into the United States.

TOP SECRETl/COMINT/INOFORNHZ0320108
6

