TOP SECRETNCOMINTHN OFORN/l20320108

a Routinely comparing electronic communications accounts/addresees/identiﬁers tasked
pursuant to these procedures against a list of electronic communications accounts/
addresses/identiﬁers already identiﬁed by NSA as being accessed from inside the United
States. This will help ensure that no target has been recognized to be located in the
United States.

5 NSA analysts may analyze content for indications that a target has entered or intends to
enter the United States. Such content analysis will be conducted according to analytic
and intelligence requirements and priorities.

(S) lfNSA determines that a target has entered the United States, it will follow the procedures
set forth in section IV of this document, including the termination of the acquisition from the
target without delay. In cases where NSA cannot resolve an apparent conflict between
information indicating that the target has entered the United States and information indicating
that the target remains located outside the United States, NSA will presume that the target has
entered the United States and will terminate the acquisition from that target. If at a later time
NSA determines that the target is in fact located outside the United States, NSA may re—initiate
the acquisition in accordance with these procedures.

(S) If NSA determines that a target who at the time of targeting was believed to be a non—United
States person was in fact a United States person, it will follow the procedures set forth in section
IV of this document, including the termination of the acquisition from the target without delay.

111. (U) DOCUMENTATION

(S) Analysts who request tasking will document in the tasking database a citation or citations to
the information that led them to reasonably believe that a targeted person is located outside the
United States. Before tasking is approved, the database entry for that tasking will be reviewed in
order to verify that the database entry contains the necessary citations.

(S) A citation is a reference that identifies the source of the information, such as a report number
or communications intercept identifier, which NSA will maintain. The citation will enable those
responsible for conducting oversight to locate and review the information that led NSA analysts
to conclude that a target is reasonably believed to be located outside the United States.

(S) Analysts also will identify the foreign power or foreign territory about which they expect to
obtain foreign intelligence information pursuant to the proposed targeting.

1V. (U) OVERSIGHT AND COMPLIANCE

(S) NSA‘s Signals Intelligence Directorate (SID) Oversight and Compliance, with NSA's Ofﬁce
of General Counsel (OGC), will develop and deliver training regarding the applicable procedures
to ensure intelligence personnel responsible for approving the targeting of persons under these
procedures, as well as analysts with access to the acquired foreign intelligence information
understand their responsibilities and the procedures that apply to this acquisition. SID Oversight
and Compliance has established processes for ensuring that raw trafﬁc is labeled and stored only
in authorized repositories, and is accessible only to those who have had the proper training. SID

TOP SECRETHCOMINT/IN OFORN/l20320108
7

