TOP SECRETHCOMINT/INOFORNHZOBZB108

Oversight and Compliance will conduct ongoing oversight activities and will make any
necessary reports, including those relating to incidents of noncompliance, to the NSA Inspector
General and OGC, in accordance With its NSA charter. SID Oversight and Compliance will also
ensure that necessary corrective actions are taken to address any identified deﬁciencies. To that
end, SID Oversight and Compliance will conduct periodic spot checks of targeting decisions and
intelligence disseminations to ensure compliance with established procedures, and conduct
periodic spot checks of queries in data repositories.

(S) The Department of Justice (DOD and the Ofﬁce of the Director of National Intelligence
(ODNI) will conduct oversight of NSA's exercise of the authority under section 702 of the Act,
which will include periodic reviews by DO] and ODNI personnel to evaluate the implementation
of the procedures. Such reviews will occur at least once every sixty days.

(8) NSA will report to DOJ, to the ODNI Ofﬁce of General Counsel, and to the ODNl Civil
Liberties Protection Ofﬁcer any incidents of noncompliance with these procedures by NSA
personnel that result in the intentional targeting of a person reasonably believed to be located in
the United States, the intentional targeting of a United States person, or the intentional
acquisition of any communication in which the sender and all intended recipients are known at
the time of acquisition to be located within the United States. NSA will provide such reports
within five business days of learning of the incident. Any information acquired by intentionally
targeting a United States person or a person not reasonably believed to be outside the United
States at the time of such targeting will be purged from NSA databases.

(S) NSA will report to DOJ through the Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the National
Security Division with responsibility for intelligence operations and oversight, to the ODNI
Ofﬁce of General Counsel, and to the ODNl Civil Liberties Protection Ofﬁcer, any incidents of
noncompliance (including overcollection) by any electronic communication service provider to
whom the Attorney General and Director of National Intelligence issued a directive under
section 702. Such report will be made within ﬁve business days after determining that the
electronic communication service provider has not complied or does not intend to comply with a
directive.

(S) in the event that NSA concludes that a person is reasonably believed to be located outside the
United States and after targeting this person learns that the person is inside the United States, or
if NSA concludes that a person who at the time of targeting was believed to be a non-United
States person was in fact a United States person, it will take the following steps:

1) Tenninate the acquisition without delay and determine whether to seek a Court order
under another section of the Act. If NSA inadvertently acquires a communication
sent to or from the target while the target is or was located inside the United States,
including any communication where the sender and all intended recipients are
reasonably believed to be located inside the United States at the time of acquisition,
such communication will be treated in accordance with the applicable minimization
procedures.

TOP SECRETHCOl‘iﬂNT/INOFORNI/Z0320108
8

