UK TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT

OPC—M/TECHB/61

2. Limited SIGINT coverage will mean we will only see a subset of the exit node
traffic. The exit node could be contacting servers anywhere on the internet and
unless we have collection very close to the exit node we are likely to only see a
subset of these connections.

A potential approach around these problems is to demultiplex by HTTP server. We
hope that (in a time window) there might only be one user browsing a particular website
so demultiplexing by server will therefore demultiplex by user too. We also hope for
complete collection of some of these streams as packets will hopefully follow a small
number of routes between the exit node and the HTTP server.

We show the inﬂuence of demultiplexing by HTTP server in ﬁgure 4. It can be seen
that the clear picture in the previous section is no longer present; a modern webpage is
typically made up of content from many different HTTP servers. By eye it can be seen
that it is hard to link many of these fragments of trafﬁc per HTTP server to the guard
node traffic. Indeed using the mathematical technique we will describe in the following
section only four of the server—to—client HTTP traces could be successfully linked to guard
node traffic.

We therefore recommend that we analyse traffic from exit nodes that we control.
Such an approach has several desirable features:

We can demultiplex exit node traffic by client as the TOR exit node can associate
all traffic with a circuit. Complex (and potentially inaccurate) demultiplexing
algorithms are not required.

0 We collect all exit node traffic for each client circuit (as opposed to SIGINT which
may only give fragments of the trafﬁc). We therefore have the cleanest possible
data.

0 We hope to deanonymise all trafﬁc for a circuit rather than just fragments of the
traffic which may not contain the data of interest to an analyst.

o A resultant database of TOR trafﬁc would give a simple place to experiment and
deploy TOR deanonymisation analytics.

The NSA have already demonstrated the demultiplexing of trafﬁc in a TOR exit
node [2).

6 Score

We compare an exit trace and a guard node trace using basic linear regression (building

on a suggestion of _. We bin time up into 1 second bins (2 : 1. . .T);

11

This information is exempt under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOI/\) and may be exempt under other UK
information legislation. Refer any FOIA queries to GCI IQ on

UK TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT

