UK TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT

OPC—M/TECHB/61

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WWWl
Client running a
TOR button soﬁware TOR network
(user-:gent changed VPS with /WWW2
an proxy set) a open web-proxy
(verifying user—agent) .
O
O
WWWn

 

 

 

Figure 1: Our test data collection infrastructure. we control the two shaded hosts and
run packet logging on these hosts. we connect to the public TOR network (guard node
“G” and exit node “E” are shown) using default settings of the TOR button. We then
browse public web sites.

On our client we used the standard “TOR button” web—browser extension to access
TOR with two minor modiﬁcations. F irstly, we changed the internal TOR button proxy
(polipo) to use our open HTTP proxy after transiting TOR. Secondly, we changed the
web—browser User—Agent to match that accepted by our open HTTP proxy.

Four experiments of about ten minutes each were conducted:

1. “News”: Search on Bing for news, followed by browsing BBC News and then the
Washington Post.

2. “TOR”: browsing the TOR website and then using a privacy checking website.
3. “Download”: Visit to SlashDot followed by downloading a large PDF ﬁle.
4. “Forum”: Search on Google followed by browsing a PC technical help forum.

Packet logs were collected for each of these. In each experiment one guard node and one
exit node was used apart from in experiment 2 where TOR set up a new path during the
experiment with a change in both guard node and exit node. Therefore we will generally
split experiment 2 into the two circuits “2a” and “2b”.

2.2 Bulk data

To prove a low false alarm rate of any algorithm we need bulk data. W'e used IP
address dumps from four internet bearers (two were “client—server” bearers and two were
“server—client” bearers). The data was kindly collected by GTE with their high—speed

5

This information is exempt under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOI/\) and may be exempt under other UK
information legislation. Refer any FOIA queries to GCI IQ on

UK TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT

