UK TOP SECRET STRAPl COMINT

OPC—M/TECHB/61

data recorder. The timestamps are microsecond accurate but the data comes with no
packet size, protocol or port information. Each capture was two hours long totalling
eight hours of collection.

We identify TOR trafﬁc by use of “consensus logs” [4] which are imported by ICTR—
NE. The TOR network decides what nodes are part of the network and what their roles
are. We ﬁlter the SIGINT packet traces to packets that satisfy:

a One IP address being a guard node as identiﬁed in the consensus log closest to the
data collection period. and

o The other IP address not being seen any the consensus log from a month surround—
ing that period.

This approach will inaccurately identify trafﬁc between clients and guard nodes; the
inaccuracy comes from the fact that the guard nodes may be doing other non—TOR
communication. W'e therefore believe that we will approximately ﬁlter down to a superset
of the wanted trafﬁc.

We note that these ﬁltering rules mean that we will ignore any clients that also run a
TOR node. However this constraint will still apply for a potential operational scenario
where we also run guard nodes; without full knowledge of the client one can not tell
whether a circuit is terminating in the client or being relayed through its TOR node.

3 Why we are not tracking a circuit through the
TOR network

When we started this work, we considered attacks that tried to follow data through the
TOR network. However an initial experiment based on JTRIG browsing logs showed
that SIGINT visibility was too low for a significant chance of success.

We will now describe the experiment conducted but the rest of the section is not
required reading.

We compare two sources of data:

a Communication between TOR servers seen in SIGINT. TDSD deployed an ICTR
signature (in Squeal) to detect communication between TOR nodes across the
SIGINT ﬂeet for two days in December 2010. To remove signature false hits we
ﬁlter down to hits where both IP addresses are known to be TOR routers (by
consensus logs [4] from the same period).

a TOR links used by JTRIG for a similar period. JTRIG log the usage of TOR
connections. Each of their circuits typically have two links between TOR routers.

6
This information is exempt under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 FOI/\ and mav be exem Jt under other UK
information legislation. Refer any FOIA queries to GCI IQ on

