TOP SECRET//S|//REL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL
(U) Vision

(U) Ensure Signals Intelligence provides THE decisive edge in advancing the full spectrum of U.S. national
security interests.

(U) Mission

(U) Defend the nation through SIGINT-derived advantage with a skilled workforce trained, equipped and
empowered to access and unlock the secrets of our adversaries.

(U) Values

(U) We will constantly strive to improve our knowledge, our people, our technology, and our products.
Through innovation and personalization, we will advance the SIGINT system. Our customers and
stakeholders can rely on us to provide timely, high quality products and services, because we never stop
innovating and improving, and we never give up!

(U) The Environment

(U//FOUO) For decades, Signals Intelligence has sustained deep and persistent access to all manner of
adversaries to inform and guide the actions and decisions of Presidents, military commanders, policy
makers and clandestine service officers. As the world has changed, and global interdependence and the
advent of the information age have transformed the nature of our target space, we have adapted in
innovative and creative ways that have led some to describe the current day as “the golden age of
SIGINT.”

(U / / FOUO) That reputation was hard-won, but will only endure if we keep sight of the dynamic and
increasingly market driven forces that continue to shape the SIGINT battle space. We must proactively
position ourselves to dominate that environment across discovery, access, exploitation, analysis,
collaboration and in the products and services we provide. The SIGINT system and our interaction
therein must be as agile and dynamic as the information space we confront.

(U//FOUO) The mission space for SIGINT in the years ahead will continue to grow at a rapid pace
amidst a dramatically new set of challenges:

(U//FOUO) The interpretation and guidelines for applying our authorities, and in some cases the
authorities themselves, have not kept pace with the complexity of the technology and target
environments, or the operational expectations levied on NSA’s mission.

- (U) Digital information created since 2006 grew tenfold, reaching 1.8 exabytes in 2011, a trend
projected to continue; ubiquitous computing is fundamentally changing how people interact as
individuals become untethered from information sources and their communications tools; and the
traces individuals leave when they interact with the global network will define the capacity to locate,
characterize and understand entitiesl.

 

1 (U) Center for the Study of Intelligence (2010) Where Tomorrow Will Take Us: The New Environment for Intelligence. August 201 0

2
TOP SECRET//S|//REL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL

