TOP SECRET//S|//REL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL

- (U) Cyberattacks offer a means for potential adversaries to overcome overwhelming U.S. advantages
in conventional military power and to do so in ways that are instantaneously and exceedingly hard to
trace. Such attacks may not cause the mass casualties of a nuclear strike, but they could paralyze US.
society all the same2.

- (U) The international system — as constructed following the Second World War — will be almost
unrecognizable by 2025 owing to the rise of emerging powers, a globalizing economy, an historic
transfer of relative wealth and economic power from West to East, and the growing inﬂuence of
non-state actors3.

(U) Expectations

(U//FOUO) The power of information, its short shelf life in the information age and the speed at which
it moves will set the conditions for how NSA interacts with customers. Transactional, passive or linear
relationships will be replaced by embedded, deeply interactive engagements. Existing investments in
cyber security will by necessity expand across the enterprise to meet the demand and speed of action
required to thwart our adversaries. To remain a value for the warfighter our information must be
immediately available at the lowest classification level. The nation will continue to depend upon NSA to
be the lead for the application of the science of cryptography, sustaining access and understanding of
data even as encryption becomes automatic, transparent and prolific. Products and services from NSA
will evolve into forms and across boundaries that mirror the networked and agile manner in which
people interact in the information age, and we will share information, responsibly and securely, with
external partners and customers.

(U//FOUO) For SIGINT to be optimally effective, legal, policy, and process authorities must be as
adaptive and dynamic as the technological and operational advances we seek to exploit. Nevertheless,
the culture of compliance, which has allowed the American people to entrust NSA with extraordinary
authorities, will not be compromised in the face of so many demands, even as we aggressively pursue
legal authorities and a policy framework mapped more fully to the information age.

(U//FOUO) To sustain current mission relevance and to meet the challenges, the Signals Intelligence
Directorate must undertake a profound and revolutionary shift from the mission approach which has
served us so well in the decades preceding the onset of the information age to a SIGINT system that is
as agile and dynamic as the information space we confront. The environment demands it, the capability
of the SIGINT system can achieve it and the work force has the creativity and the skill base to make it
possible.

(U//FOUO) What follow are the five challenge goals the SIGINT leadership has established to close gaps
between the environment and expectations over the next five years.

 

2(U) Lynn, William I. III (2010). Defending a New Domain: The Pentagon's Cyberstrategy. Foreign Affairs. September/ October 2010. Vol
89, No 5, pp 97-108

3(U) National Intelligence Council (2010) Global Trends 2020: A Transformed World. United States Government. November 2008

3
TOP SECRET//S|//REL TO USA, AUS, CAN, GBR, NZL

