[edit] Analysis Tools

Tool Description Contacts
BABYLON is a tool that bulk queries web mail addresses and verifies whether they can be signed up for. A green tick JTRIG Software
indicates that the address is currently in use. Verification can currently be done for Hotmail and Yahoo. Developers =_'l
CRYOSTAT is a JTRIG tool that runs against data held in NEWPIN. It then displays this data in a chart to show links JTPIG Software
between targets. Developers =_'l
ELATE is a suite of tools for monitoring target use of the UK auction site eBay (mrwebaycouk). These tools are JTPIG Software
hosted on an Internet sewer, and results are retreived by encrypted email. Developers =_'l
PRIMATE is a JTRIG tool that aims to provides the capability to identify trends in seized computer media data and JTPIG Software
metadata. Developers 21
JTRIG will shortly be rolling out a JEDI pod to every desk of every member of an Intelligence Production [Tech Lead:-
JEDI Team. The challenge is to scale up to over 1,200 users whilst remaining agile, efficent and responsive to -Expert User:
customer needs.
h :
JILES is a JTRIG bespoke web browser. [Tec Lead -
-Expert Userz]
MIDDLEMAN is a distributed real-time event aggregation, tip-off and tasking platform utilised by JTRIG as a middleware JTRIG Software

ayer. Developers 21

JTRIG Software

OUTWARD is a collection of DNS lookup, WHOIS Lookup and other network tools.
Developers =_'l

is a bulk search tool which queries a set of online resources. This allows analysts to quickly check the JTRIG Software
online presence of a target. Developers :1

is a data index and repository that provides analysts with the ability to query data collected from the JTR'G Software
SLAMMER Internet from various JTRIG sources, such as EARTHLING, HACIENDA, web pages saved by analysts Developers 3‘
etc.

TANGLEFOOT

[edit] Databases

Tool Description Contacts
BYSTANDER is a categorisation database accessed via web service, JTRIG Software Developers 2.1

is a database of C2C identifiers for Intelligence Community assets acting online,

CONDUIT _ _ _ JTRIG Software Developers :1
either under alias or in real name.
is a database of CZC identifiers obtained from avarie of uni ue sources, and a
NEWPIN _ _ _ ty q JTRIG Software Developers =_1
swte of tools for exploring this data.
fl'ech Lead :_Expert Users: -
QUINCY is an enterprise level suite of tools forthe exploitation of seized media. —

[edit] Forensic Exploitation

Tool Description Contacts
BEARSCRAPE can extract WiFi connection history (MAC and timing) when supplied With a copy of the [Tech Lead 1—Expert
registry structure or run on the box. Userz]

   

   

ech Lead
The Sigint Forensics Laboratory was developed within NSA. It has been adapted by JTRIG U

SFL
as its email extraction and first-pass analysis of seized media solution.

Expert User:

'5 atool to e tract mob'le hone data from a cc of the hone's memo s all 5 red
as an image file extracted through FTK.

is a tool to extract data from field forensics' reports created by Celldek, Cellebrite, XRY, [Tech Lead'

MobileHoover Snoopy and USIM detective. These reports are transposed into a Newpin XML format to _
upload to Newpin,

Nevis is a tool developed by NTAC to search disk images for signs of possible Encryption fl'ech Lead:
products. CMA have further developed this tool to lookfor signs of Steganography.

