llm’trd Starts 5Eﬂﬂtt

WASHINGTON, DC 20510
June 24. 2013

General Keith Alexander
Director

National Security Agency
Fort Meade. MD 20755

Dear General Alexander:

The NSA recently released a Fact sheet on surveillance authorities that contains information
about both section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (PISA) and section 215 of the
USA Patriot Act. As you know. section EIS of the Patriot Act is the basis for the NSA's bulk
phone records collection program, while section ?02 of FISA governs the collection of phone and
intemet communications. and involves the PRISM computer system.

We were disappointed to see that this fact sheet contains an inaccurate statement about how the
section 702 authority has been interpreted by the US govemment. In ourjudgment this
inaccuracy is signiﬁcant. as it portrays protections for Americans' privacy as being signiﬁcantly
stronger than they actually are. We have identiﬁed this inaccurate statement in the classified
attachment to this letter.

We urge you to correct this statement as soon as possible. As you have seem when the NSA
makes inaccurate statements about government surveillance and fails to correct the public record.
it can decrease public conﬁdence in the NSA's openness and its commitment to protecting
Americans' constitutional rights. Rebuilding this conﬁdence will require a willingness to correct
misstatements and a willingness to make reforms where appropriate.

Separately, we note that this same fact sheet states that under section "£02. “Any inadvertently
acquired communication of or concerning a US person must be promptly destroyed it‘it is neither
relevant to the authorized purpose nor evidence of a crime." We believe that this statement is
somewhat misleading, in that it implies that the NSA has the ability to determine how many
American communications it has collected under section 702, or that the law does not allow the
NSA to deliberately search for the records of particular Americans. In fact, the intelligence
community has told us repeatedly that it is “not reasonably possible to identify the number of
people located in the United States whose communications may have been reviewed under the
authority" of the FISA Amendments Act.

We appreciate your attention to this matter. We believe that the US government should have
broad authorities to investigate terrorism and espionage, and that it is possible to aggressively
pursue terrorists without compromising the constitutional rights of ordinary Americans.
Achieving this goal depends not just on secret courts and secret congressional hearings. but on
informed public debate as well. We look forward to your response.

