d.i.

d.ii.

TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/INOFORN

You can query by case notation (P7* where * : wildcard), or you can query
by username in the TELEPHONE_NUMBERS field (note that if your target
has a long username, you may have trouble searching by username due to
length limitations in NUCLEON... but you won't have any trouble searching
by case notation in NUCLEON).

Another way to pull up the audio in NUCLEON is to pull on the zipcode that
the audio was sent to. If you pull it up this way, the Skype audio displays
along with the rest of the FAA audio that was sent to the same zipcode.

e. Where’s the other side of my voice out in NUCLEON?

e.i.

CES has added a great new service for OPls on PRISM (and FBI FISA)
voice collection: all voice cuts will now be autopaired and you will not have to
hunt down the other side of phone calls. You will automatically be presented
with both sides of the conversation in NUCLEON. Previously. analysts would
have to search through NUCLEON to find both sides by looking at the
targets and the timestamps to guess which ones are paired.

f. Where’s the audio to go with my Skype video?

f.i.

Within the DNI Presenter (DNIP). the user can utilize the “View Associations”
service to find the associated NUCLEON audio of the PINWALE document
or find the associated PINWALE document of the NUCLEON audio. In other
words, you can find the MAM and/or TAM associations to any associated
Skype data. and then display them within the DNIP Skype combined display
or the DNIP Composite display. Also from the UIS Text Presenter. you can
launch the DNI Presenter to utilize this “View Associations” service.

9. How Do 1 Tell When Stored/Search Comms Arrive From PRISM?

g.i.

There is no collection capability for Stored/Search Comms in Skype PRISM.

h. Why do i receive multiple copies of Skype chat sessions?

h.i.

You might get chats in segments and then get the whole chat in a third
collect. This is how Skype works. Depending upon what your target is doing.
a copy of his chat history can be sent in-bulk (which can span multiple chat
sessions). If you target, for example. has 3 separate chat sessions with
another individual on his laptop. then logs-into his Skype account on his
desktop. the chat-history of those 3 separate chat sessions will be
transmitted from this laptop to his desktop so that both his computers have a
log of the whole conversation.

TOP SECRET/[COMINT/INOFORN

