TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/INOFORN

i. What does “0 Frames Available” mean in my Skype video results?

Whenever you see this' In PINWALE: “Stream 1 has 0 frames available” or
"Stream 2 has 0 frames available”. it means that we know that a video- feed
was taking place. but we didn't get enough traffic to reconstruct any video
frames. Either the target was unable to get a video feed up, or too much
traffic was lost during the collection process to reconstruct any images.

j. Why are so many e-maii addresses correlated to one Skype user account?

j.i.

These are probably all valid associations. Skype does not require that a user enter
a "valid" email address when creating a Skype account (which establishes their
skypeMailTokens). A simple email address like "abed@hotmail.com" is likely to be
randomly picked by a large population of Skype users when creating their
accounts... so it's not unreasonable to find a lot of correlations. You will likely find a
similarly high correlation count for something like "abc@hotmail.com" or
"asdf@hotmail.com" or "b0b@hotmail.com". These are not false hits... these users
*did* enter this email address when creating their Skype account... but a lot ofthem
probably did so to maintain their anonymity by typing in something simple &
random, rather than their true email address.

k. What's wrong with the timestamps in my Skype data?

k.i.

This is due to 2 reasons:

1) Skype sends chunks of old conversations to synchronize conversation
histories across multiple Skype installations. DNI Presenter & UIS attempt to
detect "historic conversation dumps" and label them as such (but keep in
mind these conversation histories can be quite old... days or weeks - so it's
important to pay close attention to the timestamps).

2) There are 2 timestamps displayed in UIS & DNI Presenter for Skype. The
first is the collection time, and the second is the target's local computer time.
DNI Presenter displays them properly as "Collection Time (GMT)" and "User
workstation time (GMT)". Please note that NSA has no control over the "User
workstation time”... a target could decide to set his local computer's clock
months or years off from the true time.

1. Why do i sometimes have to piece together a lot of chat sessions from Skype?

TOP SECRET/[COMINT/INOFORN

