TOP SECRET/lCOMINT/INOFORN

InlOut number, then we will collect voicemails. Both of these scenarios only
apply to surveillance collection. We do not have any stored comms collection
from Skype at this time.

IlO is a telephone number assigned by Skype. You can use either your
Skype ID or your I/O number to make/receive calls. If you're only making
P2P calls you don't need an llO assigned. You only need an IIO number if
you want to make calls tolfrom the PSTN. Note you can also make I/O to Ho
calls, which must hit a PSTN switch of some type.

c. What happens when both sides of a Skype call are tasked selectors?

c.i.

PRISM should collect two copies of the communication. This is true unless
one of the users' Skype communications falls into one of a couple of
technical limitations which prevents us from currently collecting via PRISM.

d. Why did l receive small and incomplete files from Skype collection?

d.i.

d.ii.

The first 256 bytes of a document for transfer are sent so that the Skype
client can figure out what type of file it is (a PDF verses a JPEG). It shows-up
on the user's Skype chat window as a message that says something like “so
and so is attempting to sent you a file... click here to download... etc.“. If the
user doesn't choose to download it. then you will not receive the entire file.
but only this first nibble of data. which might include the filename.

Also, due to known limitations in our collection process, some larger size
files being transferred by targets may be not be fully collected. There is no
stored comms capability to go back and retrieve these files.

e. How does the Skype Credential CRC work and what will l see in collection?

e.i.

The way Skype works. users (in the raw data) are represented by their
Skype Credential CRC (SkypeCredCRC). Usually the data contains enough
information such that we can figure out what SkypeUser maps to the
SkypeCredCRC... but sometimes this isn't possible. SkypeCredCRC's are
temporary identifiers... so they're not targetable. Normally analysts don't

TOP SECRET/[COMINT/INOFORN

