withjust that problem. The NYMRDD name-matching system; developed by the
Center for Content Extraction [CCE]; can accept gueries consisting ofpersonal
names; perform a. "fuzzy" match of the input name to one or more sets of stored
names; and return a list ofpotential matches for presentation to the user. NYMRDD
finds potential name matches without wildcards and can match across scripts [for
example; between Arabic and Roman scripts}.

[SHEIHREL] NYMRDD's first sets ofnames stored for matching have all been taken
from intelligence reports from NBA; CIA; and DoD databases; with CREST
[transcript database} names coming on-line soon. Since its initial release inJanuary
EDGE; analysts have been using NYMRDD to find information relating to targets
that would otherwise be tough to track down. The user interface is very simple: you
just type in the name you are looking to: set a. matching threshold from ll] [yery
tolerant of differences} to 1.0 [exact match}; select the datase[s]I you want to search
within; and submit the guery. The results presentation will allow you to browse the
snippets of text that contained the matched name. You can try out this capability
for yourself ifyou "go NYMRDD" in your web browser.

[SHEIHREL] "But I don't want yet another tool!"y many of you have said; and the
CCE has taken this to heart. NYMRDD also offers a web service that other systems
can use to create their own datasets and perform matching gueries. We are
working with partners such as the Target Knowledge Base; the Unified Targeting
Tool; and FASTSCDPE to begin integrating the service into those systems so that its
operation is available to their users without anyone having to leave their normal
work environment. Developers can find more information about NYMRDD's web

service including an Interface Control Document; on the WW
page.

[UHFDUDJI NYMRDD's performance is monitored using a guality-assurance
process. We work closely with our commercial and ﬁg technology suppliers to
continuously improve the underlying matching software so that we can offer
performance enhancements with each guarterly release ofNYMRDD. Dur April
2008- release made large strides in performance on Arabic names; while the
upcoming release in July will offer greatly improved Chinese name matching. The
CCE welcomes your feedback and inguiries. Please contact us at any time using the
CCE HELP e-mail alias.

Eof3

